By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – A group under the aegis of AREWA Christians and Indigenous Pastors Association (ACIPA), has said the emergence of Bola Ahmed Tinubu as president-elect is as a result of lack of transparency and manipulation from the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC). ACIPA said the grave silence that paved the country, gave credence to the fact that this is the worst election in the history of the country. Speaking in a press text sent to our correspondent at the weekend, Chairman of the group, Rev. Luke Shehu called on Nigerians across religious divided to come together on March 11 2023, and vote for either the Labour Party and the People’s Democratic Party candidates in their respective States in other to prove a point that the All Progressive Congress;(APC), actually stole the presidency from the back door. According to him: “ACIPA have been vindicated with the events leading to the Presidential election of 25th February 2023, the election manipulation, lack of transparency by INEC and the eventual announcement of Tinubu as winner. “It is obvious that this is the worst election in the history of Nigeria. This is evident by the graveyard silence that followed the announcement of Tinubu as the winner. “We call on all Coordinators, clerics, Christians leader and community leaders to network with allies across religious divide and vote PDP or Labour Party as we can no longer tolerate or accept the divisiveness that emboldened the APC and INEC. “This is beyond tribal, religious and sectarian interest! “Please act as we await justice but do not embolden them by voting without wisdom and discernment”, Shehu said. By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - A group under the aegis of AREWA Christians and Indigenous Pastors Association (ACIPA), has called on religious faithfuls not to be deceived by their clerics in voting along religious lines. Chairman of the Group, Rev. Luke Shehu said a vote for the Presidential… In "Top Stories" By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - A former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara has taken a swipe at the Presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, saying that he always dances at his campaign rallies because he has nothing to say.… In "Top Stories" JOS (Sundiata Post) - Northern Christian leaders under the aegies of Arewa Christians and Indigenous Pastors Association (ACIPA) have expressed support for the call by a former defence minister, General Theophilus Danjuma, that Nigerians should defend themselves against the rampaging herdsmen. Addressing newsmen in Jos, ACIPA President, the Rev. Luka… In "Local News"