ABUJA – President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated President-elect, Bola Tinubu on his victory at the February 25 presidential election.Buhari’s congratulatory message came after Tinubu’s declaration as winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Wednesday morning.The president described Tinubu as the best man for the job and urged aggrieved losers to approach the court to seek redress. Buhari said: “I congratulate His Excellency Bola Ahmed Tinubu on his victory. Elected by the people, he is the best person for the job. I shall now work with him and his team to ensure an orderly handover of power. “The election was Africa’s largest democratic exercise. In a region that has undergone backsliding and military coups in recent years, this election demonstrates democracy’s continued relevance and capability to deliver for the people it serves. “Within Nigeria, the results reveal democracy’s ripening in our country. Never has the electoral map shifted so drastically in one cycle. In the presidential elections, states in all regions across the nation changed colour. Some amongst you may have noticed my home state amongst them. The winning candidate did not carry his own home state either. That happens during a competitive election. Votes and those that cast them cannot be taken for granted. Each must be earned. Competition is good for our democracy. There is no doubt the people’s decision has been rendered in the results we look at today. “That is not to say the exercise was without fault. For instance, there were technical problems with electronic transmission of the results. Of course, there will be areas that need work to bring further transparency and credibility to the voting procedure. However, none of the issues registered represent a challenge to the freeness and fairness of the elections. “I know some politicians and candidates may not agree with this view. That too is fine. If any candidate believes they can prove the fraud they claim is committed against them, then bring forward the evidence. If they cannot, then we must conclude that the election was indeed the people’s will – no matter how hard that may be for the losers to accept. If they feel the need to challenge, please take it to the courts, not to the streets. “However, to do the latter means they are not doing it in the interest of the people, but rather to inflame, to put people in harm’s way and all for personal, selfish gains. “After a degree of polarisation that necessarily accompanies any election, it is now time to come together and act responsibly. I call on all candidates to remember the peace pledge they signed just days before the election. Do not undermine the credibility of INEC. Let us now move forward as one. The people have spoken.” By ADEYEMI ADELEYE Senator Bola Tinubu LAGOS- The All Progressives Congress (APC) Ghana chapter, says emergence of Sen. Bola Tinubu as APC presidential candidate is a major step to achieving a Nigeria they envisaged.The chapter also said that Tinubu, as APC flag bearer, would ensure victory for the party in… In "Politics" By Emmanuel Mogbede Abuja -  The United Kingdom chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), says that reconciling aggrieved members of the party is crucial to its success in the 2019 general elections. The Spokesperson of the chapter, Mr Jacob Ogunseye, said this in a statement, a copy of which… In "Politics" By ISMAILA CHAFE President Muhammadu Buhari, Senator Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu ABUJA- President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday night  met behind closed door with the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, at his residence in the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the… In "News"