….Calls on aggrieved political parties and concerned citizens to document and present their claims to INEC, in accordance with the Electoral Act 2022. By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Leaders in the West African sub-region have called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to comply with the provisions of the Electoral Act 2022 on the collation of results for the presidential and National Assembly elections held on February 25, 2023. They noted that complying with the electoral law and the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, in the process of collating the election results, will go a long way to retaining the confidence of Nigerians in the ongoing electoral process. Former Nigerian President, Goodluck Jonathan; ex-Ghanaian President John Mahama and other members of the West African Elders Forum (WAEF) Election Mission to Nigeria made this known in a statement on Tuesday in Abuja. They appealed for calm in the country while calling on INEC to address the concerns and procedural questions raised so far by different stakeholders. According to them, INEC’s compliance will retain the confidence of Nigerians in the ongoing collating of Saturday’s election results. As part of moves to ensure post-election peace, the elders met with presidential candidates including Bola Tinubu of All Progressives Congress (APC), Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP), Rabiu Kwankwaso of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) and Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Earlier on Tuesday, the LP, PDP and African Democratic Congress (ADC) said the deliberate refusal of the INEC chairman, Mahmood Yakubu to respect the upload of results electronically as stipulated by Section 60 of the Electoral Act 2022 is unacceptable. The three parties said the result so far released by INEC showed “monumental disparities” between what the party agents signed and what INEC officials announced in Abuja. They said the manual transmission of results compromised the integrity of the election process and demanded a cancellation of the election and asked the electoral chief to step down. Recall that Party agents had staged a walkout from the national collation centre in Abuja on Monday after the INEC chief insisted that the process must continue despite that all results were not electronically transmitted. Many party leaders have bitterly complained that INEC officials at the polling units were unable to upload election results to the IReV. The IReV and the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) are new technologies introduced by the electoral body for the accreditation and electronic transmission of votes for this year’s polls. Elections for the office of the President, 360 House of Representatives and 109 Senatorial seats were held in the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory on Saturday and Nigerians expect the declaration of results by the electoral umpire. Below is the full text of the statement: STATEMENT BY WEST AFRICAN ELDERS FORUM (WAEF) ON NIGERIA’S FEBRUARY 25, 2023, 2023 ELECTIONS ISSUED IN ABUJA, NIGERIA, FEBRUARY 28, 2023 The West Africa Elders Forum (WAEF) Election Mission to Nigeria, 2023, wishes to commend Nigerians for the resilience and patriotism displayed during the Presidential and National Assembly election which held on Saturday February 25, 2023. In December 2022, we deployed a pre-election mediation mission led by former Sierra Leonean President, His Excellency Ernest Bai Koroma to interface with key stakeholders. Our Election Mission led by former Ghana president, His Excellency John Dramani Mahama which has been in the country since last week, witnessed election day proceedings on February 25, 2023 and has continued to observe the unfolding developments, since the collation process began. Other members of the Mission include former Beninoise President His Excellency Boni Yayi, former Nigerian President His Excellency Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, former Vice President of The Gambia, Her Excellency Fatoumata Jallo Tambajang, former Burkinabe Prime Minister and President of the Economic Community of West African States His Excellency Kadre Ouedraogo, and former Deputy Chair of the African Union, Dr. Erastus Mwencha. The Mission noted how Nigerians across the country demonstrated faith and patriotism in their country, defying many challenges to perform their civic duties. While the elections were peaceful in a number of places, challenges of delay in arrival of electoral materials, voter suppression, ballot box vandalization and incidents of violence in some states, created anxiety among citizens who were passionate to cast their ballots. We commend Nigerians for the calmness, patience and maturity they have continued to exhibit as they wait for the collation process to be concluded.The Mission notes that some political parties and concerned citizens have raised procedural questions and allegations of infractions of the electoral law in the process of collation of results. We call on all aggrieved parties to document and present their claims to INEC, in accordance with the Electoral Act 2022. The Mission notes the imperative of retaining the confidence of Nigerians in the ongoing electoral process and, therefore, urges the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to thoroughly investigate those concerns and comply with the electoral law and the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, in the process of collating the election results. We reiterate that Nigeria is a major stakeholder in the sustainability of democracy in West Africa and the responsibility of maintaining the nation’s thriving democracy and the general peace of our sub-region rest on all our shoulders, especially on the integrity of INEC and other election management bodies in West Africa, during elections. We therefore urge INEC to live up to its responsibility of delivering free, fair and credible elections, in accordance with the nation’s laws. WAEF urges political parties, candidates and their supporters to remain calm and peaceful while awaiting the final outcome of the electoral process.As former leaders who are committed to peace and stability in our sub-region, we have begun a round of consultations with some of the presidential candidates and other key stakeholders, taking to them our message of hope, understanding and peace. So far, WAEF have held meetings with some of the presidential candidates including the Presidential candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party Dr. Rabiu Kwankwaso and the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar in Abuja. This afternoon we also held consultations with the All Progressives Congress Presidential candidate Senator Bola Tinubu and the Labour Party Presidential candidate, Mr. Peter Obi, in an expanded meeting that included the Heads of Missions of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the African Union (AU), His Excellency Ernest Bai Koroma and His Excellency Uhuru Kenyatta, respectively, as well as the President of the ECOWAS Commission, His Excellency Dr. Omar Alieu Touray. We have continued, in all of these meetings, to urge the candidates and their supporters to maintain peace and use all available legitimate means to sort out their concerns and grievances. We hope to sustain this Mission until the electoral processes are successfully concluded. We, therefore, urge everyone to be circumspect in their actions and responsibilities, during this moment in order not to jeopardize the collective stability and peace of the nation. Signed: H.E. John Dramani MahamaPresident of the Republic of Ghana(2012-2017)Head of WAEF Mission to Nigeria’s 2023 H.E. Dr. Goodluck Ebele JonathanPresident, Federal Republic of Nigeria (2010-2015)Convener, WAEF By EMMANUEL OLONIRUHA ABUJA- The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will scrupulously apply laws , particularly the Electoral Act, 2022 without fear or favour to ensure free, fair, credible, inclusive and transparent elections in 2023.The INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, made this known on Wednesday in Abuja, at the 4th… In "Politics" ABUJA - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said it has no intention to discard electronic transmission of results in the forthcoming 2023 elections. In a statement issued on Sunday in reaction to media reports that there would be manual collation of results in the forthcoming elections, Festus Okoye,… In "Top Stories" Recently Prof Attahiru Jega, former INEC chairman, shared his thoughts on the amended Electoral Act that is yet to be signed into law. His views are important because he is considered an insider and has midwifed an electoral process reasonably regarded as credible by Nigerian standard. Prof Jega’s central… In "Column - Monday"