By Joy AkinsanyaAbeokuta, – An Abeokuta Magistrates’ Court, on Thursday, sentenced a 20-year-old man, Idowu Usman, to three years imprisonment for shop breaking and stealing of foodstuff. The convict, whose address was not provided, was convicted on a four-count charge of felony, unlawful damage, stealing and unlawful possession of chisel with no satisfactory account. The Magistrate, Mrs O.O Odumosu, sentenced the convict after he had pleaded guilty to the charges. Odumosun sentenced Usman to three years on count one, two years on count two, one year on count three and six months on count four, adding that the terms of imprisonment must run concurrently. Earlier, the Prosecution Counsel, ASP Olakunle Shonibare, told the court that the defendant committed the offences on Feb. 14 at about 10:23 p.m. at Adehun junction, Ayetoro road in Abeokuta. Shonibare said that the convict broke into the shop of one Mrs Bolanle Oyeleye, using a chisel to damage the padlock in order to gain entrance. He said that the convict stole foodstuff and beverages, such as Spaghetti, groundnut oil, Bournvita, Dano milk and chips. The prosecution counsel added that the convict also damaged the solar light in the shop and the padlock at the door, all valued at N47,530. According to him, the offences contravened Sections 412, 451,390 and 430 of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ogun, 2006. (NAN) Funmilayo Okunade Ado-Ekiti, - An Ado-Ekiti Chief Magistrates’ Court, on Thursday, sentenced a 21-year-old man, Owolabi Olamide, to four years imprisonment with for breach of peace and unlawful escape from police custody. The Chief Magistrate, Mr Michael Faola, sentenced the defendant to three years imprisonment for causing breach of peace… In "Metro" By Patience Mabel Yakubu Mararaba (Nasarawa State) - A Mararaba Upper Area Court, on Tuesday, sentenced a 37-year-old labourer, Adamu Husseini, to 18 months in prison for stealing an electric generator set. The Judge, Mr Ibrahim Shekaru, sentenced Husseini after he pleaded guilty to a two-count-charge of house breaking and… In "News" By Patience Yakubu Kaduna, - A Kaduna Magistrates’ Court, on Wednesday, sentenced a 30-year-old man, Samuel Friday, to eight months imprisonment  for shops breaking and stealing properties worth N370, 900. Friday, a resident of Barnawa, Kaduna was convicted on a two-count charge of burglary and stealing. The Magistrate, Ibrahim Emmanuel,… In "Metro"