By Blessing Ibegbu Abuja, March 6, 2023 (NAN) A Karu Upper Area Court in Abuja on Monday ordered that a 32-year-old unemployed man, Chibinyerem Martins be remanded in a correction centre for allegedly stealing a woman’s cell phone worth N150,000. The judge, Malam Ishaq Hassan, ordered that the defendant be remanded until May 11 for proper investigation and for bail determination. The police charged Martins with theft, being in possession of items suspected to have been stolen and wandering. He pleaded not guilty to the charge. The Prosecution Counsel, Mr Olarewaju Osho, told the court that the defendant committed the crime in Dec. 2022. The police alleged that the defendant assisted Ms Veronica Madaki to a hotel where she was expected to lodge. He said that the defendant stole her Samsung cell phone, worth N150,000. The police said that on Feb. 14, the defendant was apprehended at the Nyanya Market and after a thorough search on him, the police discovered a laptop, one Infinix phone and one iPhone suspected to have been stolen. During police investigation, he said, the defendant could not give a satisfactory account of himself. The offence, the police, said contravenes the provisions of sections 287, 405 and 406 of the Penal Code (NAN By Blessing Ibegbu Abuja, – A Karu Upper Area Court in Abuja on Monday ordered that a 32-year-old unemployed man, Chibinyerem Martins be remanded in a correction centre for allegedly stealing a woman’s cell phone worth N150,000. The judge, Malam Ishaq Hassan, ordered that the defendant be remanded until May 11 for proper investigation and for bail determination. The police charged Martins with theft, being in possession of items suspected to have been stolen and wandering. He pleaded not guilty to the charge. The Prosecution Counsel, Mr Olarewaju Osho, told the court that the defendant committed the crime in Dec. 2022. The police alleged that the defendant assisted Ms Veronica Madaki to a hotel where she was expected to lodge. He said that the defendant stole her Samsung cell phone, worth N150,000. The police said that on Feb. 14, the defendant was apprehended at the Nyanya Market and after a thorough search on him, the police discovered a laptop, one Infinix phone and one iPhone suspected to have been stolen. During police investigation, he said, the defendant could not give a satisfactory account of himself. The offence, the police, said contravenes the provisions of sections 287, 405 and 406 of the Penal Code (NAN By Hauwa GoldAbuja, - A Grade I Area Court in Karu, Abuja, on Tuesday, remanded a 38-year-old unemployed man, Doctor Kigudu, in a correctional centre for allegedly stealing a motorcycle. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the police charged Kigudu, of Durumi area of Abuja, with theft. The… In "Metro" By Hauwa GoldAbuja, - A Grade I Area Court in Karu, Abuja, on Tuesday, remanded two unemployed men in a correction centre for allegedly assaulting their neighbour The police charged Kingsley Nwodo and Chinasa Chinwike  who live in Jikwoyi phase 4, Abuja with joint act, criminal trespass, defamation of character, assault… In "Metro" By Hauwa GoldAbuja, - A Grade I Area Court in Karu, Abuja on Thursday ordered that three unemployed men be remanded in police custody for allegedly stealing a handbag belonging to a passenger. The police charged Adeyi Jerry, 25; Emmanuel Patrick, 23, Zacks Moses,20, all of Aso C Mararaba, Nasarawa… In "Metro"