By Olayinka Owolewa Ilorin, – Police in Kwara are investigating a homicide in which a police officer shot a woman to death at a school premises on Thursday in Ilorin. The police officer also shot himself to death after the murder. The murdered woman was believed to be mistress of the police officer. An eye-witness told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that upon arrival at the school with her child, the police officer accosted the murdered woman, had some discussions with her before shooting her twice. He added that the police officer immediately shot himself to death also. Another eye-witness who saw the incident from a nearby building confirmed the report. A man, claiming to be a property owner said the police officer and the woman hired an apartment from him some weeks back and had been behaving like love birds until they started having problems since five days earlier. “They have been having issues since five days ago. When they rented the house, we were always happy with the way they showed love to each other. “Some say the police officer was a man friend of the woman, but they had been quarrelling for the past few days now,’’ the man said. Police spokesman in Kwara, SP Ajayi Okasanmi, confirmed that a police officer killed a woman and himself on Thursday in Ilorin. He told NAN that while details were still sketchy, he was told that it was a case of love affair gone sour. Okasanmi said the police had begun investigation into the matter.  (NAN) LAGOS - There was pandemonium in the Ajah area of Lagos State on Sunday when an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) attached to the Ajah Police Station shot dead a female lawyer, Bolanle Raheem. The incident marred the Christian celebration, throwing the community into confusion as the police chief, who… In "Metro" A police officer has reportedly shot himself just about 24 hours after a colleague committed suicide.   Barely 24 hours after an officer of the New York Police Department committed suicide, another allegedly shot himself in the head on Wednesday evening, New York Daily News reports. Local media quoted unnamed sources… In "Metro" ABUJA - There is tension in Mabushi community in Abuja as a police officer on Saturday allegedly shot dead a colleague and also killed himself. It was learnt that the trigger-happy officer, who was attached to one of the private residences in the area, was exchanging friendly banters with the… In "Metro"