Actress Adunni Ade has said that popular road transport worker and aide to MC Oluomo, Koko Zaria, should be held responsible if anything happens to her. In a video shared on her Instagram page, Adunni played a video showing Kokozaria saying she should not meet him outside otherwise he will  ‘’teach her some sense” and then they will both go to the police station. This whole thing started when Adunni berated some public figures for allegedly collecting money to campaign for a particular presidential candidate. Some actresses came out to slam her for disrespecting their decision. Kokozaria who was also campaigning for the same candidate was filmed berating Adunni and Kemi Afolayan for their comments attacking the entertainers who allegedly collected money to support a candidate. ‘’Look at Kemi Afolabi who has amounted to nothing in life, she is abusing us. We will not talk to her. God will ask her. Adunni Ade, that dirty girl . Those who love Asiwaju are the ones who came out to poarticipate in a rally called for by MC Oluomo. Don’t let me talk about you. If I do you will just go and die. What I will just tell the both of you is that none of you should ever meet me anywhere. Adunni Ade and the mad girl that calls herself Kemi Afolabi. The day I will meet you, you will know. I will not say more than that. We will teach you a lesson and then we will all go to the station.”Koko Zaria was filmed saying Adunni says she has filed a complaint at the US Embassy and the relevant agencies about the threat, KokoZaria is yet to react to this development. Watch the video she shared below A post shared by Lindaikejiblog (@lindaikejiblogofficial) Adunni Ade has just revealed her mother is at the hospital and in actually fact, 'fighting' to life.The actress shared the photos saying she didn't want to talk about her health online, but she had to do it, to celebrate a strong woman -- her mother.Sharing the photos, the mom… In "Entertainment" In this latest interview Adunni Ade talks about her career, motherhood, modelling and her deep passion for music. Who Is Adunni? I don't like talking about myself, when you ask me "Who is Adunni?" I'm just Adunni, I'm a mother of two children. That's what I do daily, my two… In "Style" This week’s super-talented celebrities are some of the brightest stars in the entertainment firmament. They range from ageless beauties to super-gorgeous youngsters and to very handsome men. These group of actresses, singers, OAPs, models and politicians all have something in common: their bi-racial heritage. The term mixed race is applied… In "Entertainment"