ABUJA – Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has been declared winner of the 2023 presidential election in Nigeria held on Saturday, February 25. The declaration was made by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the early hours of the day (Wednesday) at the International Collation Centre in Abuja. The INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said the former Lagos State Governor garnered 8,794,726 votes, while former Vice President Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party scored 6,984,520 votes, and Peter Obi of the Labour Party polled 6,101,533 votes. The candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party, Rabiu Kwankwaso, had 1,496,687 votes. Tinubu, Abubakar and Obi all won 12 States, including the Federal Capital Territory, while Kwankwaso took only one State. Declaring Tinubu as winner, Yakubu said: “That Tinubu Bola Ahmed of the APC, having satisfied the requirements of the law is hereby declared the winner and returned elected.” From left: Atiku Abubakar (PDP), Peter Obi (LP) and Kashim Shettima (APC, for Bola Tinubu) ABUJA - The All Progressives Congress presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu was absent on Thursday as presidential candidates of other political parties signed the 2023 election peace pact.   Tinubu’s running mate, Kashim Shettima was, however,… In "Top Stories" Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Former Lagos state governor, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu risks disqualification from contesting the 2023 general election if he fails to wriggle out of the discrepancies noticed in the credentials he submitted while running as Lagos Governor and that submitted now for the presidential race. This is as… In "News" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu has announced the postponement of collation of election results till 11am Monday (tomorrow) after announcing Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the winner of Ekiti presidential election. According to the… In "News"