ASABA – The vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, and Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, has admitted that the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, recorded a “sweeping victory” in the South-East and South-South regions of Nigeria in the February 25 presidential election. Okowa spoke in Asaba, the state capital, while reacting to the outcome of presidential election. The Labour Party presidential candidate and former governor of Anambra State defeated Okowa in his state. Obi won 18 out of the 25 local government areas of the state, leaving seven Local Government Areas for his closest rival and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, whom Okowa had a joint ticket. Obi took Ika South, Aniocha North, Ethiope West, Oshimili North, Ndokwa West, Ukwuani, Aniocha South, Ethiope East, Sapele, Ndokwa East, Oshimili South, Isoko South, Isoko North, Warri South, Okpe, Udu, Aniocha North, Uvwie and Ughelli North, Local Government Areas with 341,866 votes as announced by the State Collation Officer for the Presidential Election, Prof Owuneri Abraham Georgewill. Atiku/Okowa won in Ika North-East, Bomadi, Patani, Warri North, Burutu. Ughelli South and Warri South-West Local Government Area of the State with 161,600 votes to come second. Speaking on the Obi’s tsunami in the South East and South South, Okowa said the Igbo agitation for Presidency, religion and desire culminated into what happened during the presidential election. He said, “A lot of factors contributed to the sweeping victory of Obi in South-South and South-East. The agitation that the presidency should come to the southern part of the country, religion and Igbo presidency are key factors. “Obidients movement is a movement that swept across the South-South and South-East. The people wanted Obi as a change. They believed it is turn of South-East. “I believe that people have exercised their rights in a democratic process but INEC did not follow Electoral Act.” [SR]