By Ngozi Njoku Lagos, – Two men, Kazeem Adeshola, 34, and Chika Kalu, 28, were on Friday docked in an Ogudu Magistrates’ Court, Lagos, for the theft of wire cables valued N1.6million. Adeshola and Kalu, who reside at Ipaja-Ayobo area of Lagos State, are charged with stealing and conspiracy. The prosecutor, Insp Donjour Perezi, told the court that the defendants and others now at large, committed the offences on Feb. 13 at Oworonshoki Expressway, Gbagada Phase 1, Lagos. Perezi alleged that Adeshola, a security guard at ARKSEGO Security Ltd, was posted to a Nixon Company. He said that Nixon Company belonged to one Mr Nixon Iwedia, and after working there for some months, Adeshola stole wire cables valued N1, 682, 000. Perezi said that Kalu later received the stolen wires from Adeshola. According to the prosecutor, the offences contravene Sections 287 and 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge. The Magistrate, Mrs M.O. Tanimola, admitted the defendants to bail in the sum of N300,000 each, with two sureties in like sum. She ruled that the sureties must reside within the court’s jurisdiction and should be gainfully employed, with evidence of tax payment to the Lagos State Government. The magistrate adjourned the case until March 17, for further hearing. (NAN) Badagry (Lagos State) - An unemployed man, Sunday Jerry, was on Tuesday arraigned in a Badagry Chief Magistrates' Court in Lagos State for allegedly stealing an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) card and stealing N5, 000. The 20-year-old, who resides at No. 5, Omotayo St., Ashiribo in Ijanikin, a suburb of… In "News" Lagos - The police on Wednesday arraigned a 33- year-old security man, Sunday Attah, in an Ikeja Magistrates' Court, over alleged theft of two cell phones and N25,000 cash. The accused, who lives at No. 13, Emmanchy St., Orile Agege, a suburb of Lagos, is facing a two-count charge of… In "News" By Vivian Ibobo   Ikeja,    -     A factory worker, Sunday Shagidi, 24, was on Tuesday brought before an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court, for allegedly stealing cables worth N360,000 from a company. The accused, who resides at 34, Church Avenue, Ketu, Lagos, was docked on a two-count charge of conspiracy and stealing.… In "Metro"