By AKEEM ABAS  IBADAN- A former governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, Mr Akeem Agbaje, has congratulated the President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu, on his victory in the Feb. 25 election. Agbaje, a former Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Ibadan branch, congratulated Tinubu in a statement he personally signed and made available to newsmen on Thursday in Ibadan. He is also the Secretary, Oyo State Chapter of Tinubu/Shettima Grassroots Independent Campaign Council. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that INEC had on March 1 declared the APC presidential candidate, Tinubu, as the winner of Feb. 25 presidential election. Agbaje described Tinubu’s victory in the Feb. 25 presidential election as a “new dawn for Nigeria”. “I heartily congratulate the President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu, on his victory at the Feb. 25 presidential election. It is, indeed, well-deserved, while the victory symbolises a new dawn for our dear country, Nigeria,” he said. Agbaje commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the transparent manner in which the presidential and national assembly elections were conducted. He described the election as the fairest, freest and most credible in the country in recent time. Agbaje said that the exercise threw up so many surprises across all the six geo-political zones, culminating in the overall victory of the APC presidential candidate. He commended the determination, tenacity and undaunting spirit of Tinubu which saw him overcoming all the challenges and realizing his long-term ambition of serving his fatherland at the highest level of governance. Agbaje expressed confidence that Tinubu’s wealth of experience in both private and public service, coupled with his brilliant performance as Lagos governor, would turn around the fortune of the country. “Tinubu is, no doubt, the right choice for Nigeria, especially at this critical time in the life of the country. He is a focused and detribalised leader, with nationalistic tendencies. “He is also a bridge-builder, a friend of the rich and the poor, a person with good leadership credentials and a shrewd manager of men and resources,” he said. He thanked Nigerians for the confidence reposed in APC, assuring that Tinubu, would do everything possible to reposition the country and ensure well-being of the generality of the citizenry.(NAN)