BENIN – Labour Party presidential candidate Peter Obi passed through Edo and Delta states on Saturday rejuvenating the party structures in the two states and putting permutations by the traditional parties for rediscovery in a spin. GWG.ng reports that the Labour Party performed excellently in the two states on February 25 winning the presidential election and projecting unheralded candidates to National Assembly victories in the two states. In Delta State, the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Ndudi Elumelu was sent packing by an unheralded Labour candidate while in Edo State, the Edo South Senatorial seat that had traditionally been in the pocket of the PDP was taken over by the special assistant of the incumbent senator, flying the ticket of Labour. The only time the Edo South Senate seat changed party identity was when Senator Ehigie Uzamere as the incumbent took an unprecedented second term on the platform of the defunct ACN in 2011. Following the impressive showing of Labour Party in the two states in the presidential and National Assembly elections, the APC and the PDP had intensified efforts to eat into the support base of the Obidients as a way of bolstering their support ahead of the polls. GWG.ng had reported how Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, the APC governorship candidate met with some Obidients in BON Hotel, Warri last weekend towards cutting a deal ahead of the governorship election. That deal has now been undercut by the chairman of the party in the state, Tony Ezeagwu who disowned the political dealers. Mrs Marilyn Okowa-Daramola, the daughter of the PDP vice-presidential candidate, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa who is standing in the House of Assembly election for Ika North East election had in a trending video begged Obidients to support her. In Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki with the threat of the APC marshalled by his now estranged former godfather, Senator-Elect Adams Oshiomhole has been going about the state begging for votes. The governor has warned that Oshiomhole could come back to reckoning should the PDP lose the majority in the State House of Assembly with the threat of impeachment on him. The national leadership of Labour Party has, however, insisted that Labour would be fielding candidates and sustain its momentum in the state level elections. Towards that end, Obi with the national chairman of the Labour Party, Barrister Julius Aburie made a dash through Delta State on Saturday galvanizing the party grassroots ahead of the weekend governorship and state houses of assembly election. He made stops at Agbor and Benin City. Obi’s sweeping visit through Edo and Delta States would indicate that the Obi phenomenon could be a long term project for the Obideints. Sundiata Post reports that the governorship and state assembly elections have been rescheduled to Saturday, 18 March 2023 nationwide. While Delta State will have both governorship and state assembly elections Edo State will have on state assembly elections. See Videos: Youths pulled out their clothes to clean the dust on Mr Peter Obi SUV 🥹🥹🥹🥹 I have never seen anything like this in my life before !!http://pic.twitter.com/i929AU8i9t — Chief Ikukuoma (@IkukuomaC) March 11, 2023 (GWG.ng)