By SAM JONES YENAGOA (Sundiata Post) – Bayelsa State Government said it has spent over N75 billion on capital projects in three months from November 2022 to January 2023. The income and expenditure profile of the state was disclosed by the Technical Adviser on Treasury and Accounts, Hon. Timipre Seipulo, at the Transparency Briefing on Tuesday in Yenagoa. The figures of N24 billion, N25 billion and N26 billion on capital projects in November 2022, December 2022 and January 2023 respectively show that the Senator Douye Diri government’s focus is on capital projects. Seipulo said the money was spent on the ongoing Yenagoa – Oporoma road, completion of the second phase of the Glory Drive, among others. The government has completed the Sagbama – Ekeremor road, is striving to complete the Eastern Ring Road and just started a new road from Toru-Orua to Yenagoa. It was reliably gathered that the new road is expected to link communities such as Bulou-Orua, Okumbiri, Amatolo and Toru-Ebeni among others. Seipulo also disclosed that donations for flood relief have continued to pour into the state coffees with N395 million in November and one million in December and N85 in January this year. He said the state government has continued to meet its other financial obligations such as payment of salaries to civil servants and appointees, pension and gratuities to retirees as well as grants to state owned tertiary institutions. Inflows from internally generated revenue (IGR) have remained low with the bulk of the revenues accruing to the state coming from the 13 percent derivation. The figure of N17.77 billion posted as closing balance for January shows that Bayelsa State may not be the poverty capital of Nigeria as is being touted in certain quarters. Bayelsa State Governor Duoye Diri By SAM JONES YENAGOA (Sundiata Post) - The Bayelsa State Government is constructing 116.4 kilometers in road projects worth N199.134 billion that are expected to link the mainland with the coastal communities. The ongoing road projects are the 42 kilometers Sagbama - Ekeremor road worth… In "News" YENAGOA (Sundiata Post) - The Bayelsa State Government has received the sum of N10.8 billion as allocation from the Federation Accounts Allocation Committee (FAAC) for the month July 2018. The Commissioner for Finance, Mr. Maxwell Ebibai, said in a statement on Monday that the state earlier received N12.7bn for the… In "News" YENAGOA (Sundiata Post) - Bayelsa State Governor, Hon. Seriake Dickson on Monday gave an account of how the N95 billion that accrued to the state from the Federation Allocation Account Committee, as published by the Federal Ministry of Finance in some national dailies in the last one year was spent.… In "Top Stories"