By ADEYEMI ADELEYE LAGOS- A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun, Mr Muritala Audu, has urged Nigerians to unite behind the President-Elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu, for the growth and development of the country. Audu, in statement on Monday in Lagos, congratulated Tinubu on his victory at the Presidential election on Feb. 25. “I congratulate Asiwaju Tinubu and urge Nigerians to unite to secure our growth and development as a nation,” he said. Urging electorate to support Gov. Dapo Abiodun’s second-term bid in Ogun, Audu described the governor as a performer “whose class towers far above other contenders in the race ahead of the March 11 2023 general election.” He said that Abiodun’s second term would attract many great developments to the state. “When it comes to governor of Ogun state, and all state representatives across the state, the present occupier of the Oke Mosan is by all standard a performer. “A governor who within a short stint has turned the tide of Ogun State for good. Prince Dapo Abiodun has virtually delivered on many of his electoral promises. “A second term for Gov. Dapo Abiodun will translate to good political fortunes for the state, most especially now that we have a Yoruba man as the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as he is likely to as a ranking governor be imbued with the required clout to influence greater development to the state. “A governor can only become so powerful in the FEC/State and earn influential and decisive Federal projects to the state only if he is a second term governor,” Audu said. According to him, only top-performing governors get to feature in office for second term. He said that a powerful position could only be given to a ranking governor “not a rookie”, hence the reasons why the electorate should vote for Abiodun for second term in order to become a ranking governor. Audu said that this could place Abiodun at a vantage position to earn a position like Chairman of Governor’s Forum or Chairman of APC Governors forum that would in turn help to attract developments to Ogun. “A dedicated and committed party leader like Dapo Abiodun, who has made us proud in every aspect of governance, should be elected at the next general election,” he said. The chieftain, however, urged party leaders whom the governor might have offended in the course of duty, to forgive and close rank with him. “I see victory at the end of the tunnel, come March 11, with Prince Dapo Abiodun on the ballot for Ogun,” Audu said. He added that other representatives of the State Assembly, who had equally proved their mettle should enjoy revalidation of their mandate for the benefits of all. (NAN)