ABUJA- President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the newly appointed Director and Head of Secretariat of the Intergovernmental Group of Twenty-Four, (G24), Dr Iyabo Masha. Malam Garba Shehu, the President’s spokesman in a statement said the president’s congratulatory message is contained in a letter signed by the president. Buhari noted that by the appointment, Masha had made history, becoming the first African to hold the position since the organisation was founded in 1971. The president enjoined Masha to use the position to champion the cause of developing countries, especially on the key economic challenges of economic diversification, debt resolution, tax policy and financial sector development. He said, “Having worked closely with Dr Masha during her time with the Presidential Economic Advisory Council, I have no doubt in my mind that she has the drive, dedication to duty, and professionalism to rise to the responsibilities of the position. “Congratulations, Nigeria is proud of your achievement, and I wish you a successful tenure.” (NAN) The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), is currently members of the Presidential Economic Advisory Council. Buhari is presiding over the virtual meeting from the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Prof. Doyin Salami is the chairman of the council that has Dr Mohammed Sagagi as vice chairman and Prof. Ode Ojowu; Dr… In "News" By Ismaila Chafe Abuja - President Muhammadu Buhari has constituted an Economic Advisory Council (EAC) to replace the current Economic Management Team (EMT). Mr Femi Adesina, the President’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, who confirmed this development in a statement in Abuja on Monday, said the Council will be… In "News" By Ige Adekunle Sango-Ota (Ogun) - Dr Samuel Nzekwe, a former President, Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) has commended the Federal Government for constituting an Economic Advisory Council (EAC) to move the nation’s economy forward. Nzekwe gave the commendation in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria… In "News"