ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – Mr. Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, held his first press conference since the February 25, 2023, Presidential election in Abuja on Thursday, assuring Nigerians that he would reclaim his stolen mandate. Obi said that the election of last Saturday fell below standard and lowered the country’s democratic standards, pointing out that the process by which somebody comes to the office is far more important than what he does thereafter. “ If we want to answer his excellency, the process that brings us to office must be excellent” According to the LP Presidential candidate, the election of last Saturday was conducted and the results were released as ‘programmed’, making it the most controversial election ever conducted in Nigeria’s history. “The election has been conducted and results announced as programmed. It is a clear deviation from the electoral rules and guidelines as we were promised and did not meet the minimum criteria of a free, transparent, credible, and fair election devoid of voter intimidation and suppression, and late commencement of voting in some specific states. “This will probably go down as one of the most controversial elections ever conducted in Nigeria. The good and hardworking people of Nigeria have again been robbed by the institutions and leaders whom we trusted. Obi assured his numerous supporters that this is not the end but rather the beginning of a new Nigeria which he and his Running mate Datti Baba-Ahmad are committed to. “New Nigeria is possible, Datti and I remain committed to a new Nigeria and with a person like Lady Jennifer, our commitment is total and your support will not be in vain. He charged Nigerians, especially the youths to come out in the next election on March 11 and vote massively for the Labour Party for the governorship and state houses of assembly elections. “Don’t be downcast and stay away because that is what they want. I am challenging this rascality for your future and our country. “It’s a long distance journey, no matter how long the night there will be daybreakWe will walk through darkness until day breaks. I will be in front of you until the day comes. On his hope in the judiciary, Obi said that he has been in court severally and always gotten justice because he always approaches them with genuine cases. The former Anambra state Governor appealed to all Nigerians to remain peaceful, and law-abiding and conduct themselves most responsibly. Please be assured that for Datti and I, and indeed for all of us, this is not the end, but the beginning of the journey to birth a New Nigeria. “Datti Baba-Ahmed and I remain absolutely undaunted and deeply committed to this project of a New Nigeria that will be built on honesty, transparency, fairness, justice, and equity. All of these start with the process -The process through which people are elected to office is as important (if not more important) than what they do thereafter with the office and authority. The LP standard bearer reiterated and assured the people of Nigeria that we will follow all available legal and peaceful procedures to reclaim our mandate because we won the election. Finally, Obi urged his supporters “to continue with your campaigns and troop out on Saturday, 11th March 2023 to vote massively again for Labour Party-LP (Mama, Papa, and Pikin) in the Governorship and State Assembly Elections. Please do not despair at a time when we can still achieve massive victories in the forthcoming elections on the 11th of March 2023.