By ISMAILA CHAFE  ABUJA- President Muhammadu Buhari has departed the Umar Musa Yar’Adua International Airport, Katsina,  for Doha, Qatar, for the Fifth United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries (LCDs). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Gov. Aminu Masari of Katsina State and some other governments officials were at the airport to bid the president farewell. NAN reports that a statement by the president’s media aide, Malam Garba Shehu, revealed that Buhari was invited to the conference by the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani. The conference will be attended by world leaders, the private sector, civil society groups and youth organisations. It aims to share development ideas and mobilise political will, solidarity, actions and solutions to transform the LDCs, by finding sustainable solutions to poverty, food insecurity, hunger and weak or non-existent infrastructure. The conference will also address inadequate healthcare facilities and climate change in LCDs  as they struggle to deliver on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. In the president’s delegation are some ministers and other government officials. The Nigerian leader is expected to return to his country home, Daura, Katsina State, on March 8, in readiness for voting in the March 11 Governorship and State Houses of Assembly Elections. Buhari had on Feb. 25 in Daura, Katsina State, during the Presidential and National Assembly elections, voted the Presidential Candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), Sen. Bola Tinubu, who emerged the winner. (NAN) Riyadh (Saudi Arabia)  -   President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday arrived Riyadh to commence a week-long visit to Saudi Arabia and Qatar. The President’s plane landed at the Royal Terminal of King Abdel International Airport, Riyadh at about 8 p.m. (local time) The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that… In "News" Makkah (Saudi Arabia)   - President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday concluded the lesser Hajj to end his visit to Saudi Arabia. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the President and his entourage performed the final Dawaf, which is the circumambulation of the Holy Ka’aba seven times, and offered supplications… In "Top Stories" Doha   -    The four Arab countries involved in the Qatar diplomatic row have ignored Kuwait’s proposal to convene a summit with Doha’s participation, Foreign Minister Mohammed Abdulrahman said Wednesday. On Aug. 9, media reports emerged claiming that Emir of Kuwait Sabah Ahmad had sent letters to the countries involved, containing… In "Foreign"