By DOUGLAS OKORO  ABAKALIKI- The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ebonyi chapter, said it has uncovered an orchestrated plot by one of the major political parties to disrupt the March 11 governorship and state house of Assembly elections in Ebonyi. Chief Austin Edeze, the Director General (DG) of the PDP Governorship Campaign Council (GCC), who did not name the party, stated this during a press conference on Sunday in Anakaliki. Edeze alleged that the party had procured and distributed over 1,500 AK-47 rifles to its agents to cause mayhem and guarantee its victory in the March 11 elections in the state. The DG further alleged that the guns were distributed four per ward across the 171 wards in the state as they were prepared to do whatever it takes to secure electoral victory against all odds. He, therefore, called on the security agencies in the state to step in and mop up illegal arms and ammunition in the hands of hoodlums and other unlicensed persons in the state ahead of the polls. Edeze emphasised that PDP was robbed of its presidential victory in the state and would not allow such to repeat itself in the governorship election. “Having been robbed, I’m not sure we will be robbed again. We are aware that a certain political party, out of fear of losing the election and sheer desperation, has shared AK-47 rifles in the 171 wards in the state. “You can imagine how many we have in each ward. We have over 1,500 AK 47 rifles waiting to be used in the next election. “We will not be silent. We shall protect our votes and we shall win. The PDP governorship candidate will come out victorious in the March l1 election,” Edeze said. “We are calling on police, the State Security Service (SSS), the army and other security agencies to guarantee the safety of the voters and the sanctity of the ballot in the March 11election,” the party said. On the alleged killing of Mr Ozoemena Nkwuda, a PDP supporter, and a serving corps member at a polling unit in Izzi Local Government Area of the state by suspected political thugs during the last presidential election, the DG urged the police to fish out the killers and bring them to justice. (NAN) By CHRISTIAN OGBONNA Mr Igwe Edeze ABAKALIKI- Mr Igwe Edeze, Director General of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Campaign Group in Ebonyi, says the state needs a governor with fear of God and human feeling in the forthcoming general elections. Edeze told the News Agency Nigeria (NAN) in Abakaliki on… In "Politics" By DOUGLAS OKORO ABAKALIKI- The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ebonyi chapter, on Thursday in Abakaliki inaugurated the Governorship Campaign Council (GCC) with a charge to drive the party to victory in the March 11, governorship election. The campaign, comprising 100 members, was inaugurated by Chief Ifeanyichukwuma Odii, the PDP governorship candidate… In "Politics" By CHRISTIAN OGBONNA Dr IfeanyiChukwuma Odii EBONYI- Dr IfeanyiChukwuma Odii, governorship candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ebonyi, says if elected, he will teach Ebonyi youths ways to make wealth and not to carry guns. He made the promise at a campaign rally he addressed on Saturday at… In "Politics"