ABEOKUTA- The Social Democratic Party governorship candidate in Ogun State, Engr. Tony Ojeshina, has stepped down from the governorship race, and declared support for the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Ladi Adebutu, ahead of the March 18 election. Ojeshina, who was flaked by his running mate, Mr Gbenga Oluyemi, and the Deputy Chairman of the party in the state, Mr Sola Coker, made the declaration while briefing newsmen on Thursday in Abeokuta. He noted that all the State House of Assembly candidates of the party are still in the race for the March 18 election. Ojeshina explained  that the collaboration is designed to take the power from “the cabal at Oke Mosan”. “The political alignment was informed by the need to forge a common front to “remove our dear state from the list of misgoverned and impoverished states. “We have been assured of simplified and transparent governance processes, with the sole purpose of improving the quality and standard of living of our people,” he said. He also emphasised that the alignment was only hinged on the need to work for the victory of the PDP, saying he has not left SDP for the main opposition party. He reiterated that the cardinal vision of SDP “is for a rebirth of a new State through social Justice and sustainable development.” Ojeshina also noted that their party (SDP) has agreed to work with the PDP and other political parties during the gubernatorial election of March 18, 2023, in order to wrestle power from the ruling APC. He added that the synergy between SDP and PDP will usher in a prosperous time for the people, anchored on the lofty vision of making Ogun an industrious model state in Nigeria, based on the ethos of Omoluabi. He, however, enjoined all supporters and members of the party to vote Adebutu, explaining, that the party isn’t moving it members to PDP rather they are only asking them to join in voting in Ladi Adebutu. “We are not collapsing our structure into PDP. SDP still remains. Our house of assembly candidates still remain. we are only stepping down for the PDP governorship candidate for our state to move forward. “We therefore enjoin all Ogun State registered voters, as well as supporters and members of our great party, to vote for PDP in the gubernatorial election” he said. (NAN)