By IKENNA OSUOHA ABUJA- Mr Victor Edward-Ogba, Chairman, Movement for Nigeria’s Transformation (MNT) on Saturday described the President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu as a beacon of democracy. Edward-Ogba said this on Saturday in Abuja in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) while congratulating him on his landslide victory at the Feb. 25 presidential poll. He said that Tinubu’s victory was a demonstration of his many years of activism for institutionalisation of democracy in the country. “We do know that his impressive records encompassing his pro-democracy activism. “He was a seasoned and performing administrator when he held sway over the affairs of Lagos State,” he said. Edward-Ogba said that Tinubu’s age long mentorship and human development feats through bridge building endeared him to millions of Nigerians hence his victory. According to him, his huge investment in human and national development and his penchant for building bridges endeared him to Nigerians. He,however, expressed optimism that the President-elect would put Nigeria on the path of transformation and prosperity. Edward-Ogba commended his members and Nigerians for making the right choice in the recruitment process. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Tinubu, the former Governor of Lagos State, garnered 8,805,420 votes, winning the elections in 12 states. Former Vice-President, Atiku Abubakar of PDP scored 6,984,290 votes and he also won in 12 states. The Labour Party candidate, Peter Obi, who followed closely with 12 states got 6,093,962 votes. (NAN) By FLORENCE ONUEGBU Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu LAGOS- Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State on Wednesday said the emergence of Sen. Bola Tinubu as President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria would open a new chapter of leadership in Africa. Sanwo-Olu, in his congratulatory message, said that the nation’s democracy had… In "News" •Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Babafemi Ojudu By SHHEDDY OZOENE Senator Babafemi Ojudu has set the social media ablaze with his principled stand not to support the presidential aspiration of Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu. While many commend his courage not to run with the herd, especially in the South West, others… In "Social Media Feeds" By CHIJIOKE OKORONKWO Vice President Yemi Osinbajo ABUJA- Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has congratulated  Sen. Bola  Tinubu on his victory at the ruling All Progressives Congress(APC) Presidential Primaries held on Wednesday at the Eagle Square, Abuja. Osinbajo, in a congratulatory message he personally authored on Thursday,  said that Tinubu’s sterling… In "Politics"