By Shedrack Frank Yenagoa, – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared PDP candidates – Mr Benson Agadaga, Sen. Seriake Dickson and Mr Benson  Kombowei,  the winners of Saturday’s senatorial election in Bayelsa.The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Dickson is a serving lawmaker, Agadaga is a former Chief of Staff to Bayelsa Gov. Douye Diri, while Kombowei is a former Secretary to the Bayelsa State Government.The Returning Officer for Bayelsa East Senatorial District, Prof. Emmanuel Akpan of the Federal University, Otuoke, Bayelsa, declared Agadaga the winner of the senatorial poll.He said that Agadaga polled 22,517 votes to defeat his closest rival, Sen. Degi Eremieyor of All Progressive Congress (APC).The Returning Officer for Bayelsa West, Prof. Samuel Enahoro, also of the Federal University Otuoke,  declared Dickson the winner of the senatorial poll.He said that Dickson polled 27,231 votes to defeat his main rival, Mr Ayakpo Danyegha of the APC.The Returning Officer for Bayelsa Central, Prof. Chris Onyema, declared Kombowei the winner the senatorial poll.Onyema  said that Kombowei  polled 51,202 votes to defeat his closest rival, Mr Tiwei  Orumiegha of the APC. (NAN) By Nathan Nwakamma Yenagoa - Gov. Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa says he has not anointed any aspirant to succeed him for the ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of the Nov. 16, gubernatorial polls.The PDP had slated its party primaries for Sept. 3, while the Independent National Electoral… In "Politics" By Nathan Nwakamma Yenagoa - Gov. Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa says his preferred candidate for the Sept. 3 primary of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will emerge among his loyalists in the Restoration camp of the party. Dickson, in a statement issued in Yenagoa on Tuesday, said that the leadership of… In "News" By Shedrack Frank Yenagoa -The Bayelsa Government has reassured primary school teachers of prompt payment of their salaries and allowance.The Deputy Governor, Mr Lawrence Ewhrudjakpor, gave the assurance during a meeting with the Chairmen, vice Chairmen and other principal officers of the eight Local Government areas in Government House, Yenagoa.Mr… In "Education"