By ISHAQ ZAKI GUSAU- Gov. Bello Matawalle of Zamfara has described the victory of Sen. Bola Tinubu in the just concluded Presidential election, as a win for democracy. Matawalle said this in a statement issued in Gusau on Thursday by his Special Adviser on Public Enlightenment, Media and Communication, Malam Zailani Bappa. “Nigerians have made a choice to allow democracy thrive in the country”, the governor, who is also the North West Coordinator, Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council, added. He commended the resilience of Nigerians who voted for the right candidate the country deserved at this crucial moment of its transition. Matawalle described the President-elect as pragmatic, experienced, balanced and a true democrat who would meet the aspirations of all Nigerians. “Nigerians should expect a build-up to a massive economic reconstruction, infrastructural and human capital development. We have not made a wrong choice,” he assured. The governor prayed for the successful implementation of all APC plans for the reconstruction of Nigeria’s socio-economic life. “We shall all put our hands on deck to ensure that the country succeeds; our party, under the new leadership and Presidency of Tinubu will not fail our confidence”, he said. (NAN) By ISHAQ ZAKI Governor Bello Matawalle, Senator Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Senator Kashim Shettima All Progressives Congress (APC) Women Professional Council on Friday declared support for Sen. Bola Tinubu and Gov Bello Matawalle’s second term bid as well as all APC’s candidates in the 2023 general elections.The Zamfara Coordinator… In "Politics" By SHUAIB SADIQ Senator Kabiru Marafa GUSAU- Sen. Kabiru Marafa, State Coordinator of the Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council, says Zamfara would vote massively for the emergence of the candidates in the 2023 polls.Marafa gave the assurance in Gusau on Sunday while interacting with newsmen after a two-week consultative meeting with… In "Politics" By ISHAQ ZAKI President Muhammadu Buhari GUSAU- President Muhammad Buhari on Friday described the APC reconciliation drive in Zamfara between Gov. Bello Matawalle, former governor, Abdul’aziz Yari and Sen. Kabiru Marafa as a strong indicator of its victory in the 2023 general elections. Buhari stated this when he visited the… In "Politics"