Edo State – Suspected Fulani herdsmen killed three people and injured dozen others on their farms in Sobe community in Owan West Local Government Area of Edo State. Among those killed, Nigerian Tribune gathered, were a pastor and two of his workers, who were working on the farm when the herders swooped on them on Saturday, March 4, 2023. A source told journalists that the latest attack was the fifth in the series of herdsmen attacks on the Agrarian community since January, 2023, when the killer herders launched their first attack. “The people of Sobe community in Owan West Local government area of Edo State have suffered another attack today following the renewed hostility of Fulani herdsmen in the area. A pastor and two of his workers were killed while they were working in their farm land around Eti Oseh Road, which links to Saboginda Ora,” the source said. Effort of the Edo State Security Network to rescue the victims before they died proved abortive as the herdsmen numbering 40 open fire on the rescue team and most of them escaped with various degree of bullet injuries. “We call on Edo State governor led by Governor Godwin Obaseki and Edo State commissioner of police and her sister agencies to beef up security in Sobe community. “This is the fifth time Sobe will be suffering deadly attacks from Fulani herdsmen this year. Most people living in the suburbs of the community has since left their homes while most farmers have relocated from the community,” the source added. Two persons were reportedly killed, on Monday, in a clash between farmers and herdsmen in Sobe, Owan West Local Government Area of Edo State. it was gathered that trouble started over the alleged slaughtering of an 11-year-old boy, who had gone to fetch firewood for his family. An eyewitness said… In "News" Daily Independent reported that the abductors have demanded N500 million as ransom for the Chinese workers. Suspected herdsmen on Tuesday killed a police officer and kidnapped three Chinese miners in Afewara, the hometown of Pastor Enoch Adeboye in Osun. Peoples Gazette learnt in combat to abduct the Chinese, the criminals… In "News" By Joy Odigie Benin -   Gov. Godwin Obaseki of Edo, has approved the disbursement of two million naira to the families of four victims, who were killed by suspected Fulani herdsmen in the state. Mr Anthony Eboigbodin, the Head of Uhunmwode Local Government Administration, made this disclosure at the… In "News"