By WANDOO SOMBO /EDITH NWAPI  ABUJA- The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has asked the Court of Appeal to vary the ex parte order made in favour of Labour Party and the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP), with regards to inspection of materials used for the presidential election. The News Agency of Nigeria, (NAN) reports that the appellate  court had on March 3, granted leave to Atiku Abubakar of the PPD and Mr Peter Obi of  Labour Party to inspect election materials used by INEC to conduct the Feb. 25 presidential election. The court granted the duo permission following two separate ex parte applications filed by Atiku and Obi, who came second and third respectively in the presidential election won by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In the  application filed by the commission and sighted by NAN, the commission is asking the court to vary the order to allow it to reconfigure its Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) for the March 11 governorship and state houses of assembly elections. NAN reports that it is the sole prayer in the application of the electoral umpire filed at the court. No date has however, been fixed for hearing of the application. A credible source in the commission had told NAN that the application became necessary following an order restraining it from tampering with the information embedded in the BVAS machines until due inspection was conducted and Certified True Copies of them were issued. Speaking off camera, the source said that the commission would require sufficient time to reconfigure the BVAS needed to conduct the election that would take place in the 36 states of the federation excluding the FCT. According to the source, considering the number of BVAS required to conduct the election across the states, INEC needs to reconfigure the BVAS used for the Feb. 25 elections and deploy them to polling units for the March 11  elections. The source said that the  technical team of the commission had to be deployed on time to start the reconfiguration of the devices, which had to be done one by one. The source said the order was pertinent as not getting it could result to a postponement of the Saturday governorship and state houses of assembly elections.(NAN) By ADELEYE ADEYEMI Chief Stanley Osifo LAGOS- Chief Stanley Osifo, a former APC Presidential aspirant, on Friday  appealed to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and Mr Peter Obi to support the President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu, to move Nigeria forward. Abubakar and Obi, the presidential candidates of the PDP and Labour Party, respectively,… In "Politics" By TAIYE AGBAJE Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Mr Peter Obi ABUJA- A Federal High Court, Abuja, on Monday, dismissed a suit filed by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) against Bola Tinubu and Peter Obi, the presidential candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Labour Party… In "Politics" Peter Obi, Labour Party presidential candidate ABUJA - The Labour Party said it has engaged the services of at least 20 senior advocates of Nigeria to challenge the outcome of the February 25 presidential election on behalf of its presidential candidate, Peter Obi. According to sources within the party, the… In "Top Stories"