Lomé, Togo – Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI), the parent company of the Ecobank Group, on March 2 announced the appointment of Jeremy Awori as Chief Executive Officer of the Ecobank Group. Jeremy Awori, commenting on his new role in a statement sent to Sundiata Post, said: “It’s a fantastic opportunity to take Ecobank to the next level of its growth strategy. Despite current global challenges, Africa offers promising prospects. Ecobank is uniquely positioned to provide systematic change across the banking sector at a pan-African level, using the geographic footprint it has already established.” “Through our single gateway platform, we are well-positioned to provide the necessary financial products and solutions for countries, corporates, and SMEs to capitalise on the continent’s vast resource, trade and investment opportunities. We also provide relevant, accessible, and affordable financial services that address the evolving needs of a vibrant, youthful, and entrepreneurial continent. Ecobank’s brand and heritage continue to be a source of pride.”, Jeremy concluded. Alain Nkontchou, Ecobank Group Chairman, added: “Jeremy Awori’s exceptional and proven qualities as a result-oriented effective leader with an extensive knowledge of the African banking landscape, make him the ideal choice to steer the growth of the Ecobank Group through the current era of rapid global and continental changes.” The Group Chairman further noted that Jeremy has the full support of the ETI Board. Jeremy Awori brings with him over 25 years of experience in the banking industry, including close to a decade serving as CEO and Managing Director of Absa Bank Kenya Plc. Prior to joining Absa, Jeremy served in leadership roles at Standard Chartered Bank across the Middle East and Africa. His extensive expertise, skills, and industry know-how make him a valuable addition to the Ecobank Group. By AUGUSTA UCHEDIUNOR Mr Ade Ayeyemi Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI), the parent company of the Ecobank Group, has  announced that the current Group Chief Executive Officer, Ade Ayeyemi, will retire after he attains the age of 60, in accordance with ETI policy.The Board of Directors selected Jeremy Awori to succeed… In "News" ACCRA, - Pan-African bank Ecobank Transnational Incorporated has named Ade Ayeyemi as its new group chief executive, it said on Monday. The 52-year-old, currently head of Citigroup's sub-Saharan Africa division, will replace Ecobank CEO Albert Essien who is retiring at the end of June after a tenure that began in… In "Business" LOME, Togo -- Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI), parent company of the Ecobank Group, and Old Mutual Emerging Markets (OMEM), a part of the Old Mutual Group, on Friday announced an enhanced strategic agreement that would strengthen existing ties between the leading pan-African bank and the insurance and asset management giant.… In "News"