Madonna has a new man in her life following her split from model boyfriend Andrew Darnell, 23. The 64-year-old Queen of Pop is now dating 29-year-old boxer Josh Popper, who has been training one of her children at Bredwinners gym in New York City, insiders told Dailymail The singer was seen cuddling up to the boxer in a series of snaps shared on Instagram earlier this month. Madonna wrote in the Instagram post: “In a male driven culture, there are always exceptions. She followed this what a photo of her embracing a punching bag captioned: “Hard to ignore the reality… that most women get demolished.” Popper also shared the photo on his own account, where he included a second photo with his arm wrapped around the pop star, flanked by three friends as they pose outside a boxing ring. Sources told Dailymail that this public display of affection wasn’t just for show and that Madonna and Popper have been seeing each other romantically. Madonna is currently mourning the death of her brother Anthony Ciccone, whose death on Sunday, Feb. 26, comes amid her recent breakup with Darnell. Washington  -   Pop singer Madonna, who had said in a profanity-laced speech at Saturday’s Women’s March in Washington, D.C., that she had thought about “blowing up the White House,’’ stressed on Sunday that she was speaking metaphorically. Madonna’s speech, which was criticised on social media, led some television networks… In "Entertainment" Blantyre -   U.S. pop star Madonna on Tuesday opened a children’s hospital wing that her charity built in Malawi, saying it would make a difference in the lives of thousands of children in the southern African country. The Mercy James Paediatric Surgery and Intensive Care Ward, which could accommodate… In "Foreign" Lilongwe  -   A Malawian High Court gave approval on Tuesday for U.S. pop star Madonna to adopt two children. The Singer now has four children in her care from the impoverished southern African country, a court official said. Malawian judiciary spokesperson Mlenga Mvula said the singer was inside the… In "Foreign"