Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Labour Party governorship candidate in Abia State, Alex Otti, has appealed to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to sort out any issues with the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) before the March 18 governorship and state assembly elections. INEC has come under fire, following the failure of BVAS to transmit a significant number of election results from polling units in real time during the February 25 presidential election as promised by the Commission before hand. Speaking on his chances of winning the Abia governorship poll during a live appearance on Channels Television’s Politics Today on Thursday, Otti said he still believes BVAS is a game changer but asked INEC to fix the problem with the devices. “Despite the discussions about BVAS and all that, I still believe BVAS is a game changer and I believe that something must have gone wrong and it has to be fixed. INEC needs to redeem its image because a lot of us were very hopeful and excited that votes would count this time. “I followed the election in Ekiti and Osun, what happened on the 25th is not a representation of what happened in Ekiti and Osun. So, my plea is that INEC should solve the problem before the election of March 18,” Otti said. The Labour Party flag bearer in Abia stated that, if elected, he would embark on massive rebuilding of infrastructure that would help in reducing unemployment and creating jobs for the people of the state. Decrying an infrastructural decay in the state, he argued that Aba had lost its glory as several mass employers of labour companies had moved out of the state. He, however, promised to bring the city back to its old glory and possibly make it better in his first four years in office as governor, upon his election on March 18. Bola Tinubu (left) and Peter Obi ABUJA - The Appeal Court in Abuja has granted the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, access to inspect electoral materials used by the Independent National Electoral Commission during February 25, 2022, general elections. The court, in a unanimous decision by a three-member panel led by Justice… In "News" The Court of Appeal sitting in Owerri, the Imo State capital, has removed the Governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The court in its judgement on Thursday, announced Dr. Alex Otti of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), as winner of the election… In "Top Stories" By Leonard Okachie Umuahia - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Tuesday tendered its final exhibits to the Abia Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Umuahia. The exhibits were tendered by Counsel for INEC, Mr Emeka Eze, and they included forms EC8A and EC8B which, he said, contained the… In "Politics"