….Tinubu Not In Good State Of Health To Rule Nigeria-Prof Yusuf ….Fears over Akeredolu’s health as wife accuses Gov’s female aide …..Dr. Okupe’s Resignation – Class is Permanent.* By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Labour Party, (LP) Governorship Candidate, Barrister Chijoke Edeoga has promised to establish Ministry of Homeland Security to suprintend and manage the state’s local security arms, the Vigilantes and Forest Guards. He said the current Forest Guards and Vigilantes would be totally overhauled to make them more effective and proactive. The Labour Party (LP) Governorship Candidate, stated these on Wednesday during his life appearance on Urban Radio FM, Enugu. He disclosed that the initial vision of setting up the local security arms was not followed and that they were flooded with wrong personnel. He assured that his government would ensure that both Vigilantes and Forest Guards would be properly restructured and funded. The Homeland Security, he stressed will have offices in all the local government headquarters and properly motivated, mobilised to reorientate and train the personnel. The Labour Party Candidate regretted that the initial plan of recruiting ex-servicemen, hunters and palm wine tappers was not followed adding that people residing in Lagos and Abuja were erroneously recruited into them. Barrister Edeoga who said he was part of the people who drafted the structure of the two local security arms noted that such deviation from the original plan contributed to their ineffectiveness . Chijioke Edeoga ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has sacked Mr. Chijioke Edeoga as the candidate of the Labour Party for Enugu State in the 2023 general election. Edeoga and Capt. Evarest Nnaji, popularly known as Odengene, have been enmeshed in legal tussle over the… In "Politics" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The first-ever online poll conducted by Energy FM 105.5 on the popularity of governorship candidates for the 2023 general election in Enugu State has ended in favour of Hon. Chijioke Edeoga of the Labour Party. For two weeks, respondents voted for the candidate… In "News" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The governorship candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in Enugu State, Chijioke Edeoga, has cautioned politicians against provocative utterances as the nation prepares to go into the campaign season ahead of next year’s general poll. Edeoga said if political leaders commit themselves to… In "Politics"