Lagos – Mrs Blessing Adeniran, the mother of a 12-year-old student of Chrisland High School in Ikeja, Lagos state, Desola Whitney Adeniran, who the school’s Interhouse sports held at the Agege Stadium on February 9, has stated that the result from the autopsy conducted on her daughter revealed she died of electrocution. Recall that in a video posted online on February 11 , the distraught mum said she was at the event to watch her daughter participate, but became worried when she didn’t see her daughter during the match past as well as other sporting events. Mrs. Adeniran said she decided to go where the students were all kept to check on her child, and when she got there, she was told by a male student that a certain Whitney fainted and had been rushed to the hospital. Whitney’s mother said her daughter was not ill prior to the inter-house sports day and when she asked the doctor at the hospital the cause of her daughter’s death, the doctor said it appears to be cardiac arrest. Reacting to the incident, Chrisland School explained that about two weeks prior, Whitney had complained of ill health and chose not to participate in the school’s march-past. the school claimed Whitney died in “public view and not under any hidden circumstances,” adding that she was rushed to the nearest medical facility for first aid. However, Whitney’s father claimed his daughter “died from naked wire from one cotton candy vendor machine after she touched it and she was electrocuted immediately she leaned on it.” He claimed water was poured on her which killed her immediately. Mrs Adeniran said her daughter was cut open in order to get the results. She said Whitney was menstruating before her death and her menstrual blood was also taken for tests. She called out Chrisland Schools for making her family go through the trauma due to the autopsy, when they could have just told them how their child died. She also said all those who “insulted, bullied and humiliated” her with the narrative that her daughter was sick prior to her death, will be judged by God. 