Plateau State – A serving police officer identified as Inspector Solomon Damak, has been arrested for allegedly shooting a man, Nyommena Salah Badapba, during a political argument in Tudun Wada Plateau State. According to the media the Plateau State Police Command will hold an orderly room trial for the officer on Monday, March 6, 2023 Damak is being detained at a police facility in Jos, the state capital. It was gathered that the officer shot Badapba, a resident of Tudun Wada community, Jos North LGA on Sunday, March 5, during an argument between them over the two governorship flag bearers of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Labour Party (LP). During the argument, the police officer who happens to be a Mupun man castigated Dr Nentawe Yilwatda, the APC candidate, saying he will not win the election because he haS nothing to offer. Badapba, the victim, tried to defend the governorship candidate, saying that he is widely accepted by Plateau people and will win the forthcoming election. The development led to a minor argument between them before eyewitnesses admonished the victim and advised him to go home. According to the publication, Badapba left the place but unknown to him, the police officer followed him. He was close to his house when Damak allegedly shot him on his shoulder. The victim is said to be receiving treatment in Bingham University Teaching Hospital, Jankwanno. Spokesperson of the command, SP Alabo Alfred, who confirmed the incident in a statement on Monday March 6, described the action of the police officer as unprofessional. “The Plateau State Police Command condemns in strong terms the shooting of an unsuspecting civilian, Mr. Nyommena Salah Badapba ‘m’ of Tudun Wada, Jos by an obdurate personnel of the Command, Inspr Solomon Damak,” the statement read. “The circumstance that led to the infliction of the gun injury by the recalcitrant officer does not fit into his professional calling but was done out of vindictiveness which contradicts the attributes of a Nigerian Police officer. “In order to ensure that the officer does not evade justice, the officer had been arrested. His firearm was recovered and he has since been detained for disciplinary action. “The Plateau Commissioner of Police, CP Bartholomew N. Onyeka, has directed the Divisional Police officer, ‘A’ Division and other officers to visit the victim at the hospital to know his condition and make arrangements for payment of his medical bills,” The Command assured members of the public that the Commissioner of Police is a responsible cop who does his job with the fear of God and therefore, will not tolerate any form of misconduct by any officer of his Command irrespective of rank. “As part of wholesome practice in the Force, the erring officer has been defaulted and his orderly room trial will commence March 6, 2023,” the statement added. The CP also assured that the disciplinary process would not be compromised and the outcome of the proceeding would be made public. He urged members of the public to remain calm and continue to be law abiding as the command is doing all within it power to protect the lives and property of all Plateau residents.