ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – It promises to be an exciting session on the popular Boiling Point Arena on Sunday March 12, 2023 as erudite lawyer, Chief Femi Falanajoins two other prominent speakers to review the fallouts of the recent presidential election and chart a new future for Nigeria. Hints of confirmation of Chief Falana joining the conversation as guest speaker and one of the discussants in the popular online discourse was received by the initiator and convener of Boiling Point Arena, Mr Ayo Arowojolu when he got a text message late on Saturday that read: “I confirm my participation tomorrow”. The 5th edition of Boiling Point Arena, a monthly online discourse on politics and governance, will feature two other eminent speakers, a vocal advocate of good governance, Dr Bolaji Akinyemi and notable Legal Practitioner, Yinka Moyosore Kotoye (SAN). The trio are to walk the audience through Nigeria’s path from nationhood and the myriads of other issues including the the present democratic processes leading to the recent elections, affronts to court rulings, non-compliance with the rule of law and what the future holds for Nigeria. The programme which will hold online via Google Meet is expected to be transmitted live by an Abeokuta-based radio station, Oodua 99.9FM for the two hour duration from 8pm to 10pm. The interactive interview session which parades large global audience will also witness a keynote address by Oba Prof Saka Matemilola, the Olowu of Owu Kingdom who also doubles as Chairman of the Boiling Point Council of Royals and Elders. Boiling Point Arena, an interview programme with an incredibly large online followership, is the brainchild of the Initiator, Mr. Ayo Arowojolu, a Media Professional with 33 years multi-varied work career spanning the media, banking and education sectors. The popular Boiling Point Arena, a monthly online discourse on politics and governance, will feature vocal advocate of good governance, Dr Bolaji Akinyemi and notable Legal Practitioner, Yinka Moyosore Kotoye(SAN) as they dissect 'The Fallouts of The 2023 Presidential Election And The Future Of Nigeria' on Sunday March 12, 2023.… In "News" Top: Olusegun Obasanjo; Down from left: Festus Keyamo, Dele Momodu and Akin Osuntokun An interesting conversation on former President Olusegun Obasanjo's New Year letter to Nigerian youths is expected to take the centre stage at 8pm on Sunday as spokesmen of the three top Presidential Candidates, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Alhaji… In "Top Stories" Senator Femi Okurounmu ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - Dr Femi Okurounmu, a chieftain of the Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, will on Sunday be a guest on Boiling Point Arena, a monthly online discourse on politics and governance. According to a statement made available to Sundiata Post by Mr. Eddy Ademosu, chairman… In "Politics"