By ABDULLAHI SHUGABA KATSINA- Supporters of All Progressives Congress (APC), in Katsina State have paid a congratulatory visit to Gov. Aminu Masari over the victory of Bola Tinubu at the Feb. 25 Presidential Election. The supporters, led by the State Deputy Chairman of the Party, Alhaji Bala Abu Musawa, told Masari in Katsina that they were also at the Government House to congratulate him on the victory of the Senate and House of Representatives candidates in the state. Musa asured the governor that there is no goin back on the electorate’s pledge to vote for APC in all the elections. “We will surely vote for all the APC candidates in the forthcoming gubernatorial and House of Assembly elections slated for March 11. “This is because we have seen the green light, we will not waste our votes to any party other than APC.” “This is because APC is the party to beat. We will reap the dividends of democracy if we vote for APC,” he said. Masari in a response, urged them to turn out en-mass and vote for Dr. Umar Dikko- Radda, the APC gubernatorial candidate and all other candidates for the House of Assembly seats. Masari assured that the APC under the President-elect, Bola Tinubu, would provide the desired leadership that would give development to the people.(NAN) By Zubairu Idris   Katsina   -     The former Director-General, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency (SMEDAN), Alhaji Bature Masari and hundreds of his supporters have defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Masari, a nephew to Gov. Aminu Masari,… In "News" KATSINA - Two former gubernatorial aspirants on the platform of PDP in Katsina State, Alhaji Kabir Barkiya and Alhaji Tukur Jikamshi, have defected to APC. They were received at the governorship rally of APC’s candidate, Aminu Masari, by the President-elect, Muhammadu Buhari in Katsina on Thursday. Other defectors included the… In "News" By Ismaila Chafe Abuja - President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday returned to Abuja after  participating in Saturday’s Gubernatorial and State House of Assembly elections in his hometown, Daura, Katsina State. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Presidential aircraft that conveyed Buhari, his wife Aisha, and some of… In "News"