 ABUJA- The Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), says the President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu will bring to bear his wealth of experience in assembling an all-inclusive team of experts in the administration of the country. President-General of the NSCIA and Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, stated this in a congratulatory message to Tinubu, issued by the council’s Deputy Secretary-General, Prof. Salisu Shehu, on Tuesday in Abuja. He urged Tinubu to upon assumption of office, put in place policies and measures that would lead to the large-scale transformation of the country’s economy, security, social infrastructure, and human capital development. Abubakar said: “NSCIA under the leadership of the Sultan, on behalf of the entire Muslim Ummah in Nigeria, heartily congratulates him on hid resounding victory during the presidential elections. ” The council is also very grateful to the Almighty Allah for the victory which is a clear manifestation of His immense favours on him and His preference that he lead our great people and nation at this point in time.” The sultan said the victory of Tinubu did not actually come to the council as a surprise. Abubakar added: “We have followed with keen interest his trajectory in the Nigerian political landscape. “We can attest to his track records in public service, hid decades of hard work, selflessness, sacrifice, unflagging commitment and dedication to the Nigerian project. “And the excellent interpersonal relationships that he had built across the country over the years. “He is a very experienced human and financial resources manager, a hunter of talents and an enabler of men and women.” The Sultan stated that Tinubu was a “sui generis among his peers in the encouragement that he constantly give to the Nigerian youths to offer their best in the service of our country. Abubakar said: “Tinubu would also foster unity, peace and engender sustainable development that we all crave. “Justice is considered as the hallmark of leadership and a non-negotiable requirement of Islam. “We would like to remind him that as a Muslim in a position of authority, leadership is trust and a lot will also be expected from and demanded of him by the people of this great country.” The sultan, therefore, urged Tinubu to continue to be good, truthful, honest, fair, transparent, disciplined, prayerful and righteous in the discharge of the duties Allah has entrusted to him. Abubakar said: “Because every opportunity is for an appointed term. He can always count on the support and prayers of the NSCIA in this respect. “We pray that the Almighty Allah bless him abundantly and grant him success so that his tenure shall be a reference point in the annals of leadership in this country. “We also beseech Allah to guide, guard and grant him the wisdom and strength to discharge his duties creditably. “This is to showcase and enhance the image of Islam by his exemplary conduct and performance.”  (NAN)