By SAM JONES YENAGOA (Sundiata Post) – Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has called on Bayelsa voters to again deliver candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Saturday’s House of Assembly election. Only the House of Assembly election will hold in Bayelsa State with the governorship election scheduled to take place later in the year on November 19. A statement by Diri’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, said the governor stated this in Yenagoa during three days of consultative meetings with PDP candidates, caucus leaders, stakeholders and the leadership of the non-indigenes from the eight local government areas. While congratulating the state PDP for the overwhelming victory recorded by the party in the February 25 presidential and National Assembly elections, the governor expressed the hope that the same feat would be repeated this Saturday. He commended the peaceful conduct of the elections across Bayelsa, saying it was unprecedented in the history of elections in the state.He however attributed the victory to God, whom he said used men to make it happen. The governor also stressed the need for PDP members to redouble their effort in order to emerge victorious in the state assembly election. He equally urged party members to close ranks and work as a family, stating that when they are united and put the interest of the party above personal consideration, achieving victory becomes easier. He said: “I like to return all thanks and glory to God for the victory recorded in the February 25 elections. It can only be God. “God does not come down. He uses men as instruments and He has used leaders of our party in the various local government areas. “On behalf of your government and our party, I say a big congratulations to you all for the victory. We appreciate you for making our party proud. It is no mean feat, particularly when compared with other states. In Bayelsa, PDP recorded 100 per cent victory. “In this Saturday’s state assembly election, I urge people of the state to replicate this feat in giving victory to our candidates in the 24 state constituencies. I can assure you that our party will not deviate from its track record of development.”