By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi has mourn the demise of Archbishop Maxwell Anikwenwa (Rtd), describing the late clergyman as a consummate administrator and a patriot who loved human progress in all of its positive dimensions. Obi, who took to his verified Twitter handle @PeterObi to disclose the news of the sudden death, said he had worked closely with the late Clergyman since 2002 when he started campaigning for the position of Anambra State governor till date. The former Anambra State governor in a series of tweets, prayed the God Almighty, who called him home to grant him eternal rest in His Kingdom; and also grant the immediate family, the Church of Nigeria, and all Nigerians the fortitude to bear his irreplaceable loss. The tweets read: “I was just informed of the death of Archbishop Maxwell Anikwenwa (Rtd). His passing is certainly a painful loss in all ramifications. Archbishop Anikwenwa, an urbane clergyman was a consummate administrator and a patriot who loved human progress in all of its positive dimensions.” “I have worked closely with him since 2002 when I started campaigning for the position of Anambra State governor till date. He remained committed to a better Nigeria. He will be sorely missed and fondly remembered.” “May God Almighty, who called him home grant him eternal rest in His Kingdom; and also grant the immediate family, the Church of Nigeria, and all of us the fortitude to bear his irreplaceable loss. May God Almighty bless the Church of Nigeria always. -PO” I was just informed of the death of Archbishop Maxwell Anikwenwa (Rtd). His passing is certainly a painful loss in all ramifications. Archbishop Anikwenwa, an urbane clergyman was a consummate administrator and a patriot who loved human progress in all of its positive dimensions. pic.twitter.com/aSiRJB13Eu I have worked closely with him since 2002 when I started campaigning for the position of Anambra State governor till date. He remained committed to a better Nigeria. He will be sorely missed and fondly remembered. May God Almighty, who called him home grant him eternal rest in His Kingdom; and also grant the immediate family, the Church of Nigeria, and all of us the fortitude to bear his irreplaceable loss. May God Almighty bless the Church of Nigeria always. -PO