Not less than 10 persons have been confirmed dead in a fatal accident which occurred at CBN Bus-stop, along the dilapidated Enugu-Onitsha expressway. JOURNALIST101 correspondent who visited the scene of the ugly incident, said dead bodies were littered on the road while passers-by made frantic effort to take both the dead bodies and the survivors to a nearby hospital. The accident occurred at about 8:45am when an 18-seater bus with Enugu registration number, XL884 ENU ran into an incoming trailer carrying bags of cement. An eyewitness who spoke with our correspondent said the vehicle, which loaded from Abakpa in Enugu East Local Government Area, was headed to New Market when the fatal accident occurred. “The driver whose name was given as Simeon was coming from Abakpa and made an attempt to overtake another vehicle in his front that was emitting too much carbon monoxide. “As he made an attempt to overtake the vehicle, the trailer was very close and the next thing we heard was a loud sound and the bus was completely damaged. I don’t know how many survived but I counted over eight dead bodies on the floor,” the eyewitness who gave his name as Chukwudi said. Many others attributed the avoidable crash to the poor state of the road which has forced many motorists to ply one-way. The police, army and Road Safety personnel are already on ground to control traffic and avoid any breakdown of law. Below is what’s left of the bus: The Federal Road Safety Corps, on Thursday, confirmed the death of 21 people, including school children, in an auto crash at Mgbowo in Awgu Local Government Area of Enugu State.   The Enugu Sector Commander, Mr Ogbonna Kalu, who confirmed the incident to The PUNCH, on the telephone, said the… In "News" By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu, - The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has confirmed no fewer than 11 persons dead and one unconscious in a ghastly accident close to the Four Corner Junction along Enugu-Port Harcourt Expressway. The FRSC also revealed that two persons among the total of 14 persons involved… In "Metro" The Police Command in Enugu state has confirmed that five persons were killed in an accident along Enugu-Abakaliki road on Monday. The state’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Ebere Amaraizu, gave the confirmation while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Monday. “Nine persons were… In "Metro"