By Funmilayo OkunadeAdo-Ekiti, – Two men, Abubakar Usman, 32 and Juli Abubakar, 25, were, on Thursday, arraigned before an Ado-Ekiti Magistrates’ Court over alleged unlawful possession of firearm. Both defendants, of unknown addresses, are facing a charge of unlawful possession of firearm. The prosecutor, Insp Olumide Bamigbade, told the court that the defendants committed the offence on Feb. 24 at 4.30 p.m. in Ikole-Ekiti. Bamigbade said that the defendants went around the community in possession of unlawful firearm to cause panic in the public. He said that the offence contravened Section 80 of the Criminal Code Act LFN, 1990. The prosecutor urged the court to adjourn the case to enable him study the file and assemble his witnesses. The defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge. Counsel to the defendants, Mr Sunday Balogun, urged the court to grant them bail, with a promise that they would not jump bail. The Magistrate, Mrs Olubunmi Bamidele, granted bail to the defendants in the sum of N20,000, with one surety each in like sum. She, thereafter, adjourned the case till April 13 for hearing. (NAN) Funmilayo OkunadeAdo-Ekiti, - A 37-year-old man, Tosin Oyesanya, alleged to have been in unlawful possession of Cannabis sativa (Indian Hemp), on Wednesday, was arraigned before an Ado-Ekiti Magistrates’ Court. The defendant of no fixed address is standing trial on a one-count charge of unlawful possession of Indian Hemp. The prosecutor,… In "Metro" By Adebisi Shittu Ibadan - The police on Wednesday arraigned two men, Hammed Abiodun, 22, and Wilson Ahior, 31, in an Iyaganku Chief Magistrates’ Court in Ibadan for alleged unlawful possession of a locally made pistol. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Abiodun and Ahior of undisclosed address… In "News" An Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court. on Wednesday remanded two unemployed men Tobilola Akeem, 27. and Saheed Akanbi, 32, to Kirikiri Correctional Center, for allegedly possessing a locally made gun. The two defendants are both unemployed and live in an uncomplicated building in Ikorodu area of Lagos. They are being tried… In "News"