By NICHOLAS DECHI MAKURDI- A former presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Moses Ayom, has appealed to Benue residents to replicate the victory recorded by the party in the Presidential and National Assembly elections on March 11. Ayom made the call while inaugurating the Independent Campaign Council (ICC) in support of Rev. Fr Hyacinth Alia for governor of the state in Makurdi. “I commend the people of Benue people, especially those from the Benue North East Senatorial District, for playing a major role in APC’s ‘political earthquake’ which consumed other parties. “The landslide victory was achieved largely due to the pragmatic leadership style of Sen. George Akume, the leader of the party in the state. “I appeal that you repeat the same during the Governorship and State Assembly polls by voting for  Rev Fr Alia, to usher in, the desired Benue where people’s interest will occupy the centre stage,” Ayom said. He said that it was his utmost desire to ensure that Alia emerged victorious with a landslide victory during the governorship election. “This is the reason why I came up with the ICC to canvass support for Alia and all APC candidates, ahead of the mega gubernatorial campaign rallies which would hold in the three senatorial districts. He assured that he was poised to work for the overwhelming success of the party in the last round of the general elections, so that the state would witness a turn around in its political history. He further congratulated the President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu, on his victory and appealed to him to support the emergence of someone from the Middle-Belt to succeed him as Nigeria’s President at the end of his eight years in office. (NAN) ....urges stronger faith in God  By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Business mogul and APC Presidential hopeful, Mr Moses Ayom has extended his heartfelt condolences to the Dangote family over the death of Alhaji Sani Dangote, describing the unfortunate incident as a painful blow to the business community and… In "News" By NICHOLAS DECHI Rev Fr-Hyacinth Alia MAKURDI- The governorship candidate, All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue, Rev. Fr. Hyacinth Alia, has urged Nigerians to vote for the party’s presidential candidate, Sen. Bola Tinubu and all the party’s National Assembly candidates. This is contained in a statement signed by his Director… In "Politics" By BRIDGET IKYADO Rev. Fr. Hyacinth Alia, APC Governorship candidate in Benue ABUJA- Rev. Fr. Hyacinth Alia, Governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue, says he will continue with his reconciliation efforts to unite all party members ahead of the 2023 general elections. Alia made the pledge… In "Politics"