By AKEEM ABAS IBADAN- A group of Nigerian professionals in diaspora, Omituntun Initiative in the Diaspora (OID) says Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo, deserves a second term in office to continue the re-engineering programmes for the socio-political and economic stability of the pacesetter state. The group, which consists of Nigerians from the U.S., UK, France, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, China, Malaysia, Brazil, the Republic of Ireland, Germany, Israel, Hungary, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Botswana, Ghana, Nigeria, and South Africa, among others, described Makinde as the best governor in the history of Oyo State. OID’s spokesman, Mr Ayotomiwa Adebayo, in a statement on Monday, said Nigerians in the diaspora are proud of Makinde as a “dynamic and creative leader whose administration has had success and record-breaking performances in Oyo State, especially in the areas of education, health, infrastructure, security, and economy expansion (through Agribusiness). “ ”Following an outstanding record of achievements and the execution of excellent trailblazing projects in all sectors, his declaration to run for a second term in office deserves massive votes from the good people of Oyo State, so as to continue the re-engineering programmes for the socio-political and economic stability of the State as a pacesetter.” The group said it was proud of Makinde as a dynamic and creative leader whose administration has recorded success and record-breaking performances in Oyo State. The OID said that Makinde has also committed to actionable climate change policies to mitigate negative environmental impacts on a sustainable socio-economic development. The group said that his achievements helped to significantly generate jobs, provide food security and safety, increase prosperity, as well as reduce vulnerability of youths and the ageing population. “Over 44 months of being at the helm of affairs, Makinde has changed the status quo of governance, fostered unity, and rekindled hope for the possibility of a better future. “In fact, Oyo State is now experiencing unprecedented economic growth and a generational shift from poor leadership and bad governance to a good governance. “These laudable achievements lend credence to the viability of Omituntun 2.0 – a sustainable socio-economic development and growth agenda for Makinde’s second term tenure,” the group said. The group described Makinde as very tolerant, prudent, honest and thoughtful leader. It said that Makinde has demonstrated the spirit of fairness, equity and justice toward the citizens of Oyo State irrespective of their religion, ethnicity as well as political affiliation. The OID said that it had given the Makinde administration a scorecard of 99.9 per cent in terms of performance. Meanwhile, the OID Convener, Mr Moses Eledan, has directed all its members and well-meaning citizens, including the youth ambassadors’ wing and GSM Network globally, to work actively in re-electing Makinde. Eledan said that Makinde deserved to be re-elected for the continuation of the laudable projects and policies he started. “The governor has made Oyo State a place where a child of nobody can become somebody without knowing anybody. “His re-election victory as a servant leader will surely inspire new generational leadership and bring more tremendous developmental milestones for the state. “The governor has restored people’s trust in good governance and leadership,” he said. He urged all citizens to vote massively for Makinde and other candidates he has endorsed on March 11 for continuation of his good work. (NAN)