The popular Boiling Point Arena, a monthly online discourse on politics and governance, will feature vocal advocate of good governance, Dr Bolaji Akinyemi and notable Legal Practitioner, Yinka Moyosore Kotoye(SAN) as they dissect ‘The Fallouts of The 2023 Presidential Election And The Future Of Nigeria’ on Sunday March 12, 2023. The programme which will hold online via Google Meet is expected to be transmitted live by an Abeokuta-based radio station, Oodua 99.9FM for the two hour duration from 8pm to 10pm. Both Dr Akinyemi, who is the Convener of Apostolic Round Table and Barrister Kotoye, the Senior Partner at Pisces and Gemini Law Chambers, are guest speakers/discussants at the interractive interview session which parades large global audience. The duo are to walk the audience through Nigeria’s path from nationhood and the myriads of other issues including the the present democratic processes leading to the recent elections, affronts to court rulings, non-compliance with the rule of law and what the future holds for Nigeria. Boiling Point Arena, a monthly current affairs programme with an incredibly large online followership, is the brainchild of the Initiator and Convener, Mr. Ayo Arowojolu, a Media Professional with 33 years multi-varied work career spanning the media, banking and education sectors. In a statement sent to SundiataPost, the Chairman, Organising Committee for Boiling Point Arena, Pastor Bola Bolawole, a one-time Editor of The Punch Newspaper and Chairman of the newspapers Editorial Board, enjoined members of the public to join the conversation so as to cross-ventilate ideas and proffer solutions to move Nigerian forward. Bolawole commended the Management of Oodua FM, chaired by the CEO, Dr Victor Mark Eniola, for identifying with worthy causes through partnering with the Boiling Point Arena to widen the audience reach through its terrestrial and online channels BOILING POINT is a news and general interest platform for informed discussions, viewpoints and commentaries on governance and national development issues. The platform comprises an array of eminent personalities including over 200 professors, technocrats, industry leaders, High Court Justices, traditional rulers, security top shots, media professionals, and several others. By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has debunked claims of an alleged plot to rig the 2023 elections.  The viral story had claimed that the former president was allegedly planning to collude with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to rig the exercise. But Kehinde… In "Top Stories" Top: Olusegun Obasanjo; Down from left: Festus Keyamo, Dele Momodu and Akin Osuntokun An interesting conversation on former President Olusegun Obasanjo's New Year letter to Nigerian youths is expected to take the centre stage at 8pm on Sunday as spokesmen of the three top Presidential Candidates, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Alhaji… In "Top Stories" Rufai Oseni ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - Ace journalist and Arise TV presenter, Mr Rufai Oseni, has advised Nigerians not to bank too much hope for revolutionary change on whoever emerges winner at the forthcoming 2023 presidential election. Oseni hinged his pessimism on the lackluster manifestos being reeled out by top… In "News"