ENUGU- Dame Favour Asogwa, Secretary of All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council Support Groups Coordination in South-East, says President-Elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu will make Nigeria a citadel of hope for all. Asogwa said this in a congratulatory message to Tinubu and his Vice-President Elect, Sen. Kashim Shettima, she signed  on Thursday in Enugu. She said  the incoming administration of Tinubu and Shettima would provide the necessary development, economic growth and an all-inclusive governance which would be beneficial to all. According to her, Nigerians all over the world, especially women, should rally round and give Tinubu the necessary support for a better and new Nigeria. She described Tinubu as a pan African whose zeal to make a difference remained unquantifiable and as someone who would continue from where President Muhammadu Buhari stopped in making the country better. “I wish to use this opportunity to congratulate our president-elect  on his victory and also moves taken so far to move the country forward. “Our president-elect has always been a Nigerian with a different mentality about leadership. “Nigeria will soon see why Tinubu is a different type of leader since he dwells on result-oriented policies and programmes that will  reposition all Nigerians to individual and collective progress and development. “His victory is a sign of the resolution of united and progressive Nigerians to bring a leader who will accommodate everybody and work tirelessly to make our country a safe Haven for all,” she noted. Asogwa, who was formerly Zonal Women’s leader of APC in Enugu North Senatorial Zone, assured Nigerian women that the incoming administration would give them a sense of belonging by accommodating them even more than expected. She noted that with how Tinubu formed the constitution of his campaign council, it had shown how crucial women would be in his government as he believed “everyone is important in leadership”. The APC chieftain, however, urged all and sundries, especially, other presidential candidates across political parties to identify with Tinubu and Shettima as well as work out plans that would champion the needed change in the nation across all sectors. She said: “As a woman who worked with Tinubu during the presidential campaigns, I saw his willingness to accommodate women. I saw that spirit of oneness devoid of race, tribe, political party or gender in him. “This is why all hands must be on deck to give him the necessary support to make our country better. “All the presidential candidates across political parties, should utilise the opportunity provided by the olive branch he extended to them, unite and merge their ideas with that of our incoming president, to make our country better and great.” Asogwa maintained that Tinubu remained the right person needed at this point in time in the country; while his administration would bring back lost glory and make Nigeria, a country to reckon with in the comity of nations. (NAN)