WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Jim Risch (R-Idaho), ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, on Thursday cautioned the Joe Biden administration against hasty acceptance of the results Nigeria’s presidential election held on Saturday, 25 February 2023. “The ongoing electoral process in Nigeria is widely viewed as deeply flawed by election observers and many Nigerians. It is disappointing to see the administration rush to embrace the result while the full picture of what occurred during this electoral process is yet to be seen. In a statement published by the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, Risch said: “I’ve expressed similar concerns related to other areas of our relationship with the Nigerian government. I worry this rush to judgement will undermine our ability to be an effective partner to all Nigerians, especially given their longstanding desire for democracy. “With Nigeria heading into state-level elections in just a few days, it is important that the United States be more concerned with supporting the Nigerian people and their democratic aspirations than embracing the Nigerian government.” By Prudence Arobani   New York -   The United States has urged all parties in Zimbabwe’s electoral dispute to respect the country’s constitution and the rule of law. The U.S. Department of State, in a statement issued by its Spokesperson, Ms Heather Nauert, noted “several improvements’’ in Zimbabwe’s recent… In "Foreign" ....Calls on aggrieved political parties and concerned citizens to document and present their claims to INEC, in accordance with the Electoral Act 2022. By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Leaders in the West African sub-region have called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to comply with the provisions… In "Top Stories" The President of Brazil, Jair Bolsonaro has alleged that the United States electoral battle between President Donald Trump and Joe Biden was marred with fraud. Biden’s win has been endorsed by the General Services Administration (GSA). The former Senator has won more than 80 million popular votes and 306 electoral… In "Foreign"