SOKOTO- The governorship candidates of ADP, LP, NNPP and SDP in Sokoto State, on Tuesday condemned in strong terms, the misguided utterances of some political leaders in the state. The candidates were: Dr Ibrahim Liman, Aminu Umar, Sen. Umar Dahiru and Sen. Abubakar Gada, respectively. They made the assertion while briefing newsmen on their position on the need for peaceful conduct of 2023 general elections in the state. Reading the 4 candidates’ resolution Liman, the ADP governorship candidate said their alliance was followed their concern as patriotic citizens with public interest. “We are totally against violence and lawlessness. Peace, harmony and rule of law are paramount and above all interests. “Therefore, these invaluable attributes shall never be compromised for whatever motive a group of people may have. “Accordingly, we hereby condemn in strong terms the misguided utterances by some political leaders which amount to disregard to the law of the land. “These utterances are capable of inciting violence and lawlessness in the conduct of the ongoing general elections,” he said. Liman added that it was very sad that prior to the utterances, acts of lawlessness, including snatching of ballot boxes, use of local weapons and intimidation were all recorded during the Feb. 25 presidential and NASS elections in the state. “We, therefore, wish to appeal to the law enforcement agencies and INEC to be more vigilant in monitoring the activities of all politicians and their supporters. “This should be done without fear or favour according to the oath they have taken and act appropriately whenever found necessary,” he added. The candidates further appealed to their supporters and well meaning citizens of the state to embrace peace and harmony as both civic responsibility and moral obligation. Limam urged: “Let us now remind you that you are victims of poor performance by the political class. “You do not know the whereabout of the dividends of democracy. You are destroyed and rendered backward experiencing low quality of life. “However, in spite of the ugly situation and disappointments, you are further being incited to violence for negative motives towards aimlessness and irresponsibility, this is very sad.” Liman appealed to the youths to use every opportunity before them to bring about positive change. “We should support and vote wisely, shun violence, avoid intimidation and never take law into your hands,”he further appealed. (NAN)