By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Kaduna Senator, Comrade Shehu Sani has raised the alarm saying that mosques and churches have deviated from preaching unity and love but instead had become dangerous political platforms for generating hate, transmitting hate and distributing hate. The Social crusader lamented that this is tantamount to lighting up a candle close to a Gas station. He disclosed this on Tuesday when he took to his Twitter handle page @ShehuSani. Earlier he had tweeted that the people of Northern Kaduna and those of Southern Kaduna will unite, irrespective of the divisive campaign by paid Religious fanatics and terminate the rule of tyranny and terror in the state. Adding that they did it on the 25th of February and they shall do it on the 11th of March Insha Allah. The tweets read: “Mosques and Churches have deviated from preaching unity, peace and love; they have now become dangerous political platforms for generating hate, transmitting hate and distributing hate. We are lighting up a candle close to a Gas station.” “We the people of Northern Kaduna and those of Southern Kaduna will unite,irrespective of the divisive campaign by paid Religious fanatics & terminate the rule of tyranny & terror in the state.We did it on the 25th of February and we shall do it on the 11th of March Insha Allah.” Mosques and Churches have deviated from preaching unity,peace and love;they have now become dangerous political platforms for generating hate,transmitting hate and distributing hate.We are lighting up a candle close to a Gas station. We the people of Northern Kaduna and those of Southern Kaduna will unite,irrespective of the divisive campaign by paid Religious fanatics & terminate the rule of tyranny & terror in the state.We did it on the 25th of February and we shall do it on the 11th of March Insha Allah. A former Nigerian senator, Shehu Sani has demanded for bandits to be declared as federal civil servants. Sani made the suggestion mocking the federal government's refusal to declare the criminal group as terrorists. Well-meaning Nigerians, individuals and groups have provided various reason the Buhari administration should declare bandits’ groups in… In "News" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Senator Representing Kaduna Central District at the National Assembly, Comrade Senator Shehu Sani has raised alarm over the spate of bloodshed and thuggery in Kaduna State, noting that the twin evil of bloodshed and thuggery have not peaked to the current level in… In "Top Stories" ...Says a Democratic State Must Balance its Security Exigencies With its Constitutional Obligations to Uphold the Rule of Law and Respect Fundamental Rights of its Citizens   ...Urges Public Servants Who Cannot Withstand Criticism to Retreat to Their Family and Assume the Status of an Imperial Emperor   By Chibuike… In "Local News"