ABUJA- The President-elect, Sen. Bola Tinubu is not looking for a rubber stamp National Assembly but a robust one. Senator-elect, Adams Oshiomhole, Edo North Senatorial District stated this while speaking with  newsmen at the presentation of certificate of return to Senators-elect in Abuja on Tuesday. ”Our president-elect looks forward to a senate that would contribute to the development of the country. ”I will not be part of the legislator for the powerful but to the countrymen,” he said. Oshiomhole, a former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), said he had been been the voice of the people as a textile union activist, NLC President, and Governor of Edo , even in his choice of projects. “I will be part of the senate that legislates for the good people of our countrymen, not for the powerful, by making sure that what we do in appropriation will be such that Nigerians get value for money. “It is expected that the executive is powerful but does not have absolute power, so it will not be subject to legislative check. “We are not there for the allowance. There are couple of things that can be done differently so that the renewed hope of our party can be translated into reality. “Even the president-elect will not look forward to a rubber stamp assembly but the one that can help to contribute to knowledge. “Nobody has absolute knowledge but working together and negotiating to have a win-win formula that will contribute to the dividends of democracy,” he said. Oshiomhole also said that the 10th Senate would work for economic growth, robust GDP that would rely on power reforms. “The current problem we face in the power sector was because it was meant to favour friends and relatives, who knows nothing about power. “Now we have to find the courage to deal with a system that makes citizens pay bills for power they did not consume, which for me is fraud. “Government must protect its citizens, and customers must be protected otherwise all the energy spent to vote for a few guys enjoy does not worth my while. “ There are couple of things we have to do differently.” Oshiomole said that the 10th Senate would also look into the issue of petroleum products. “We still see long queues and each time I see the queues I feel agitated because I fought against these obnoxious policies when I was the President of NLC. “We must take a radical action to ensure that the petrol we consume is refined in Nigeria. ”I will not go to the senate to lament but make laws that would be enforced,” Oshiomhole said.(NAN) Fourteen members-elect of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC in Edo state have reacted to threats by the state Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki to deal with the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, accusing the governor of planning to take out the party leader. This was as former… In "News" Former heads of state, General Yakubu Gowon, General Ibrahim Babangida, General Abdulsalami Abubakar and President-elect, Gen. Muhammadu Buhari are expected among other top dignitaries at the marriage ceremony of Edo State governor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to his new bride, Miss Lara Forte. The marriage is to take place in Auchi,… In "News" The crisis rocking the Edo State House of Assembly may have crept into the new legislative arm of government as thugs allegedly attacked Mr Seidu Oshiomhole, younger brother of the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Adams Oshiomhole, in Benin. The thugs attacked Oshiomhole on Tuesday alongside 14… In "Politics"