By Raji RasakBadagry (Lagos State), – 22-year-old man, Chukwu Williams, was on Tuesday arraigned in Lagos for alleged threat to life, breach of peace and unlawful damage to property. He appeared before a Badagry Chief Magistrates’ Court on a three-count charge but pleaded not guilty. The prosecutor, ASP Clement Okuoimose, told the court that the defendant committed the offences on Jan. 8 at 2.00 p.m. at No. 4, Arinze St., Oko-Afo, Badagry. Okuoimose said that the defendant used a broken bottle and threatened to kill the complainant,  Mr Samuel Umeh, during an argument. “The defendant conducted himself in a manner that could breach the peace when he took the complainant’s  dog to an unknown destination,” he added. Okuoimose also said that the defendant unlawfully damaged a motorcycle worth N110,000. He said that the motorcycle belonged to one Mr Arinze Okonkwo. He said that the offences contravened Sections 56, 168 and 339 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The Chief Magistrate, Mr Fadahunsi Adefioye, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N200,000 with two sureties in like sum. Adefioye said that the sureties must reside within the court’s jurisdiction and provide evidence of tax payment to Lagos State Government. He adjourned the case until Feb.14 for mention. (NAN) By Raji Rasak Badagry - The police on Wednesday arraigned a 60-year-old man, Martins Anyakoro on in a Badagry Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State for allegedly posing as a Naval officer. Anyakoro os charged with two counts of impersonation and breach of peace. The Prosecution Counsel, ASP Clement Okuoimose, told… In "Metro" By Raji Rasak Badagry - A 50-year-old man, Yusuf Ahmed, who allegedly stole 485 crates of beer, two cartons of Ground Malt and 222 empty crates of soft drinks, worth N2.4 million on Thursday appeared in a Badagry Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos. Ahmed, whose address was not given, is… In "Metro" By Raji Rasak Badagry (Lagos State), - A 38-year-old man, Gbenga Rotimi, was on Thursday arraigned at a Badagry Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos for an alleged N10 million fraud. The defendant, whose address was not given, was docked on a two-count charge of fraud and stealing. The Police Prosecutor,… In "Metro"