By SUNDIATA POST YOLA- The Obidient Movement stormed the North East State of Adamawa on Tuesday with Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi declaring in a multi- city Rally that a new Nigeria is possible, where the people will be secured and having equal opportunities in their country. Obi and and his Obidient team arrived the state Tuesday morning to an organic warm and colourful reception of the Obidients in the state led by the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. David Babachir Lawal. The three key cities in the state, Yola, the state capital, Numan and Mubi towns all hosted the team with various types of engagements, town hall meetings and rallies with a cross section of the community all declaring their unalloyed support for Obi and the LP. At the various engagements Obi made it clear to the people that he and his Vice are seeking to rule this country because they have the capacity and the capabilities to unlock the numerous potentials in our land and turn it into gains for the populace. He said that security is topping their priorities because without a secured environment, nothing can be achieved in our policies of turning Nigeria from consumption to production and pulling the people out of poverty. Obi told the people that the insecurity that has seriously affected the state and now spreading to all parts of the country is a consequence of long neglect of the basic needs of the people which he and Datti are coming to correct. ‘A society that is bedeviled by injustice cannot move forward, a country whose leaders use ethnic and religious sentiments to deceive and grab political power cannot develop because they get it at the expense of character, competence and known record of performance’, Obi declared. Obi continued his message that the vast arable land in the North remains the future gold and oil of Nigeria, which if he and Datti are elected will see a new and vibrant Nigeria. He also said that Nigeria has no business being the poverty capital of the world with all the potentials of human and natural endowment freely given to us by God. The LP Presidential flag bearer told the youths that he and Datti will engage them and ensure quality education policy where their parents will not be under severe stress to educate them. His words: “For us, education is an investment and we will do everything to educate the populace because without education we cannot pull people out of poverty which is our goal if given the mandate”. Obi told the jubilant crowd that by voting for him and Datti they will be be investing their future in trusted hands who are the best among all the candidates. The Vice Presidential candidate Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmad, the National Chairman of the Labour Party, Julius Abure among other Obidient leaders and Presidential Campaign Council spoke at various engagements to underscore the Obidient message to the people .