Mr Volker Perthes, UN Special Representative for Sudan, has commended the political parties for starting talks to restore democracy more than a year after the military coup in the country. Perthes hailed the political parties for starting talks, aimed at restoring a civilian-led transition, noting that it is an important step towards peace and democracy. The coup ended a power-sharing agreement between military and civilian leaders, established following the April 2019 overthrow of President Omar al-Bashir, who had ruled for 30 years. “After almost 15 months after the coup of 25 October, 2021, returning to the transition path would be a major, major step forward for all Sudanese whether they are civilians or in the military,” Perthes told UN News. The talks mark the second and final phase of a political process that began in December with the signing of a Political Framework Agreement for a two-year transition leading to elections. They are being facilitated by the UN, the African Union (AU) and the East African bloc IGAD, together known as the Tripartite Mechanism. In a statement issued following the January 8 launch in the capital, Khartoum, UN Secretary-General António Guterres described the development as “another important step forward towards realising the aspirations of the Sudanese people for democracy, peace and sustainable development.” Representatives from civil society, academia, the private sector, youth, and women rights groups, as well as traditional and religious leaders, are also taking part in the talks. Five workshops will be held, the first of which focused on a road map for the dismantling of the old regime, said Perthes, who also heads the UN Integrated Transition Assistance Mission in Sudan (UNITAMS). “I was able to witness quite a number of sessions, some meetings and workshops, and I was personally impressed by the level of discussions and sincerity with which the Sudanese talked to one another, interacted with one another,” he continued. “It was very result-oriented, and that is important in this context.” In Dec. 2022, the envoy briefed the UN Security Council on the framework agreement, saying it could signal a way out of the uncertainty and insecurity sparked by the coup. Some factions have criticised the deal for neglecting issues such as accountability, but Perthes refuted these claims. “Accountability is being mentioned in the framework agreement, but it is true that it needs to be spelled out further. “There will be a workshop – probably one of the most important of the five workshops – on transitional justice, which of course is about accountability and how to practice it in a difficult context,” he said. With the talks underway, Perthes was asked about the next steps, expressing hope for the future. “I am more optimistic, much more optimistic than I was a year ago,” he revealed. “I think there is a real chance to get to a political solution, which of course means that a government has to be formed very, very soon.” He also urged the Sudanese people not to lose hope. “We are in a better place than we were a year ago and support those who try to find a solution. No solution is ideal, but having a solution is better than having none.” (NAN) The United States and other Western powers have expressed grave concern over the appointment of a new Sudanese ruling council by the general who led last month’s coup, saying it complicated efforts to restore a transition to democracy. The United States, Britain, Norway, the European Union and Switzerland also urged… In "Foreign" Khartoum - Sudan could face a counter coup if military rulers and the opposition do not reach agreement on a transition of power, leading opposition figure Sadiq al-Mahdi on Thursday said. Mahdi said he believed Sudan’s military council would hand over power to civilians if the current stalemate were broken.… In "Foreign" Sudan’s military seized power in a coup on Monday, arresting members of a transitional government that was supposed to guide the country to democracy following the overthrow of long-ruling autocrat Omar al-Bashir in a popular uprising two years ago. Gunfire was heard as opponents of the takeover took to the… In "Foreign"