By EHIGIMETOR IGBAUGBA CROSS RIVER- Sen. Jarigbe Agom-Jarigbe (PDP – Cross River), says that “ineptitude of APC’s administration in Cross River” prompted him to deliver a “superlative performance” as a Senator representing Cross River North at the National Assembly (NASS). He  lamented that in spite of having a sitting governor for almost eight years, the enviable privilege had not rubbed off on the district. He stated this during a town hall meeting with clan heads in Ogoja in Ogoja Local Government Area on Saturday. Agom-Jarigbe said the failure of the Ayade-led administration in addressing the peculiar needs facing the senatorial district propelled him to embark on intensive lobbying campaigns at the Senate. He stressed that the lobby was aimed at attracting various people-oriented projects to the area in spite of him being inaugurated barely a year ago. “When providence smiled on us and our brother became a governor, we had high hopes and expectations that he will use his good offices to transform our senatorial district. “The district, which is regarded as the most backward in the state in terms of basic infrastructure and amenities, now has the people more disappointed and embarrassed. “All we got are a plethora of lies, deceit, glorified warehouses christened ultra-modern factories and multiple signposts mounted on confiscated ancestral lands, announcing proposed white elephants.” “Even the few projects they attempted to do, they awarded the contracts to their proxy companies which lack competent manpower and standard equipment. “The Okuku Okpama road, which has killed dozens of our people, is a typical example. Suffice it here to also mention the deplorable Obudu Bekwarra, Boki Obudu roads awarded over six years ago.” Sen Jarigbe explained that his quest for projects, capacity building, and targeted empowerment initiative became “inevitable to checkmate growing despondency which had crept in among the people since APC assumed office. The State PDP Chairman, Mr Vena Ikem, said the party paraded the best array of candidates with passion and capacity to deliver the dividends of democracy to the people.(NAN) By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Stakeholders in Cross River Northern senatorial district have read the riot act to politicians in the state. The opinion leaders mostly of PDP extraction pegged performance as a pre-requisite for gaining their votes in the 2023 general elections.Speaking at a 1 million man… In "Politics" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has sworn in Jarigbe Agom Jarigbe to represent Cross River North Senatorial District.  Senator Jarigbe took the oath office on Wednesday at about 11:19am immediately after the start of plenary.  The oath of office was administered by… In "Top Stories" About 5,000 All Progressive Congress have dumped the party and defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Cross River. The new defectors were given a welcoming party on Sunday at the Government Technical College playground in Ogoja. PDP received the huge followership to double its grand reception for Jarigbe… In "Politics"