By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – With a little over 40 days until Nigeria’s general elections, a non-partisan group, Nigerian Association of Women Entrepreneur (NAWE), has lamented the low participation of women in politics in the country. The group’s President, Barr. Vera Ndanusa, also challenged what she described as cultural stereotypes plaguing women in Nigeria, including those interested in politics. Ndanusa stated this while interacting with our correspondent on Monday in Abuja. She added that her group had unveiled a series of initiatives to support Nigerian women in politics. To this end, the NAWE boss called on women who are 18 years and above to demonstrate the spirit of resilience, come out in their numbers and vote for a credible candidate in the 2023 elections, who will ensure women participation in governance.While reiterating that NAWE is non-partisan, she said the group is more concerned with creating a safe space for women in politics, mobilising resources and driving attitudinal change. “We want to ensure that people understand that without women, there is no Nigeria. Essentially, we are thinking of ways to create a platform that can change the narrative and prejudices against Nigerian women in politics,” she said. Ndanusa further noted that Nigerian women are making giant strides in different facets of the economy but need more inclusion in politics. She continued: “In terms of education, women are getting the right education in terms of exposure and the right exposures in terms of trade and entrepreneurship, there are more women entrepreneurs than men in terms of leadership from the community grassroots on top, women are more in the inclusion of managing families, managing communities”, she stressed. BENIN CITY – THE National President of Nigerian Association of Women Entrepreneur (NAWE) Barr (Mrs) Vera Ndanusa on Thursday called on women to increase their participation in politics ahead of the 2023 general elections and the coming National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) just as she urged them… In "News" By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Nigerian Association of Women Entrepreneurs, (NAWE), has said Nigerian women are poorly represented in leadership position and manpower, calling on the federal government to liberate women from these inequalities going forward. President, NAWE, Barr. Veronica Ndanusa, while congratulating President Muhammadu Buhari on Nigeria's… In "Top Stories" By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - President of Nigerian Association of Women Entrepreneurs (NAWE), Barr. Vera Ndanusa has called on the Director General of the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), Dr. Dikko Radda, to partner with NAWE to help increase women participation in the Agricultural… In "Top Stories"