ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – Prof Uchenna Ikonne, Abia State PDP gubernatorial candidate, is dead. He died in Abuja after a brief illness. A statement issued by his son, Dr. Uche-Ikonne Ekezie, said he died today (25 January 2022) at the National Hospital, Abuja. The full statement reads:DEATH OF PROFESSOR ELEAZEAR UCHENNA IKONNE I regret to announce the death of my dear father, Prof Eleazar Uchenna Ikonne, who died at the National Hospital Abuja today, 25th January 2023 by 4am after a brief illness. He was recovering after taking proper treatment in the United Kingdom but relapsed a few days ago leading to multiple cardiac arrests for which he didn’t recover from. Further details and arrangements would be made known to the public after deliberations and meetings are made within the family. Thank you. Dr Uche- Ikonne ChikezieFor the family. The current Governor of Abia State, Dr. Ikpeazu had announced previously that the PDP gubernatorial candidate had fallen ill. •Prof Uchenna Ikonne UMUAHIA - A leading Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial aspirant, Prof Uchenna Eleazar Ikonne has unfolded the six pillars of his vision for Abia State if elected governor in 2023.  The tested academic and administrator outlined the vision in campaign stops at Ikwuano, Bende, Isiukwuato and Umunneochi. … In "Politics" By Sam Oditah   Umuahia   -    Prof. Uche Ikonne, Vice Chancellor,  Abia State University, Uturu, on Tuesday said that the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) had approved N60 million for 38 research topics for the institution. Ikonne said this at a pre-convocation press conference to announce the activities lined up… In "Education" By IHECHINYERE CHIGEMERI-UWOM •Professor Uche Ikonne UMUAHIA- Former Vice Chancellor of the Abia State University, Uturu, Prof. Uche Ikonne, has emerged the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2023 general elections.The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Ikonne was elected at the party’s primary election… In "Politics"