By David Adeoye Ibadan – Dr Akin Fagbemi, Chairman, Oyo State Road Transport Management Authority (OYRTMA) has warned the public about driving against the traffic laws of the state. The warning was contained in a statement  on Wednesday in Ibadan by Fagbemi. The chairman urged all road users,  especially members of political parties to refrain from driving against traffic rules and regulations, as enshrined in the State Traffic Management Authority Law, 2009. According to him, Fagbemi said the Oyo state government under the leadership of Gov. Seyi Makinde is irrevocably committed to the sustenance of law and order. He  further stated  that the government was committed to all actions that would  protect lives and property of people of the state and would not compromise its stand no matter the status of the people involved in violation of the traffic law. He said the call was based on recent activities of some political parties who had been observed to outrightly negate this commitment and thus endangered the lives and property of the people. “Therefore, issuing this Riot Act has become expedient, more so that we have received myriads of public complaints pertaining to the flagrant disregard of extant road traffic laws of the state by political parties during rallies, campaign and other similar gatherings. “Some political parties have been observed to flagrantly disregard functional traffic lights during movement as if the state operates in a banana republic. “Whereas the sitting governor himself always obey the traffic lights despite his robust security attaché. “This is unacceptable and any vehicle of any of the political parties caught in the harmful and shameful act, will  not only be impounded but prosecuted in the state’s mobile courts. “ applicable punitive actions will also be melted without recourse,” he  said. He said that as political activities intensified across the country in readiness for the 2023 general elections, the authority would inaugurate a special monitoring squad to monitor and mitigate effects of political activities on free flow of vehicular movement across the state Fagbemi further warned all political parties to obtain relevant permits prior to  any gathering that could impede the free flow of human and vehicular movement across any part of the state to avoid acting as clogs in the wheels of innocent commuters.(NAN)