By STANLEY NWANOSIKE ENUGU- The Leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has visited and consulted the home of the late Chief Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, foremost Igbo leader and the Ezeigbo Gburugburu of Igbo land. The delegation, led by Chief Emma Eneukwu, Deputy National Chairman of APC (South), came to Ojukwu’s home in Enugu on Thursday with other party chieftains. Eneukwu said that it was imperative that any party that wants to make massive inroad and impact electoral wise in South East must consult with the Ojukwu family. According to him, the late Ojukwu held a lot of credibility, followership and commanded great respect among the people of the South East and beyond. To the Matriarch of Ojukwu’s Family, Amb. Bianca Ojukwu, Eneukwu said “It will be gratifying if you tell people to vote for us (APC), because I know your family commands a lot of respect, especially in Igbo land (all Igbo-speaking areas of South East, South South and North Central zones). “When they vote us, we will make sure that your pride of place is maintained. “As an Eagle, Ojukwu’s pride of place, will be surely maintained for ages,” he said. The APC chieftain maintained that the the late Ojukwu’s residence would be the first point of call for the APC Presidential Candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, any time he visits Enugu in the course of his Presidential campaign consultations and rallies. Responding, Bianca Ojukwu, who received the APC national delegation, said that the elections we are looking forward to, for most Nigerians, are election that would alter the status quo. According to her, “I think all of us here know what we in the South East are passing through. “We are looking forward to a government that will bring in security, we are looking forward to a government that will alleviate the sufferings of the people. “Of course, Igbos are looking for equity, fairness and inclusiveness which we have not really been accorded within the Nigeria polity. “And this is the message I would want you to take back to the Presidential Candidate of APC,” she said. She, however, said that in the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), “we also have a presidential candidate that we hope would do what is necessary to change the paradigm.” Ojukwu said that Nigerians are looking forward to a new nation uncontaminated by the past. “And as time and day go by, we also hope that there will be peace after this election. “And this peace can only be guaranteed by some degree of magnanimity by whoever God ordains to be the leader of Nigeria at this important time,” she added. It would be recalled that Mr Peter Obi, the Presidential Candidate of Labour Party, about fortnight ago, paid a consultation visit to the Ojukwus in Enugu. (NAN)