Abuja (Sundiata Post) – As part of ongoing measures to raise the bar of efficiency in passport operations in the country, the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has flagged off the construction of the proposed Abeokuta Passport Office in Ogun State as well as commissioned the Passport Front Office in Kano, Kano State, which will significantly make the acquisition of Nigerian passport seamless for the travelling public. The Comptroller General of Immigration (CGI), Mr. Isah Jere Idris, while performing the ground-breaking ceremony for the new Abeokuta Passport Office on Wednesday, as part of his tour of Immigration formations in Zone A comprising Lagos and Ogun states,  assured that he would not relent in pushing the frontiers of improved and better service delivery to Nigerians. The CGI, according to a statement issued by the NIS Public Relations Officer, Deputy Controller Tony Akuneme, described the new passport office building project as timely, stressing that on completion, it would enhance passport processing and production. “Part of my agenda is to make passport acquisition seamless. And the only way we could do this is to improve, build the structures, and equip it so that Nigerians can get these services seamlessly without tears. This is indeed a timely project for upgrading our service delivery to the people of Ogun State and Nigeria as a whole. This development will surely enhance passport processing and production in the Gateway State. I congratulate the personnel of the Ogun State Command of the NIS, and I can assure that this project will also help them deliver optimal service to the people of the state at all times,” he said. As part of ongoing measures to raise the bar of efficiency in passport operations in the country, the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has flagged off the construction of the proposed Abeokuta Passport Office in Ogun State as well as commissioned the Passport Front Office in Kano, Kano State, which will significantly make the acquisition of Nigerian passport seamless for the travelling public. The Comptroller General of Immigration (CGI), Mr. Isah Jere Idris, while performing the ground-breaking ceremony for the new Abeokuta Passport Office on Wednesday, as part of his tour of Immigration formations in Zone A comprising Lagos and Ogun states,  assured that he would not relent in pushing the frontiers of improved and better service delivery to Nigerians. ASR Africa, BUA Foundation Approve N1.5bn For Developments Of Ogun Communitie The CGI, according to a statement issued by the NIS Public Relations Officer, Deputy Controller Tony Akuneme, described the new passport office building project as timely, stressing that on completion, it would enhance passport processing and production. “Part of my agenda is to make passport acquisition seamless. And the only way we could do this is to improve, build the structures, and equip it so that Nigerians can get these services seamlessly without tears. This is indeed a timely project for upgrading our service delivery to the people of Ogun State and Nigeria as a whole. This development will surely enhance passport processing and production in the Gateway State. I congratulate the personnel of the Ogun State Command of the NIS, and I can assure that this project will also help them deliver optimal service to the people of the state at all times,” he said. (Leadership)