By YAKUBU UBA MAIDUGURI- Troops of Sector III of the Operation Hadin Kai and the  Multi National Joint Task Force (MNJTF) have foiled attempt by insurgents to attack Monguno in Borno. This is contained in a statement on Friday by the spokesperson of the sector, Capt. Babatunde Zubairu. Zubairu said some weapons and logistics were recovered. “Following credible intelligence reports on the activities of terrorists, troops in conjunction with the Hybrid Forces swiftly and professionally responded to an infiltration attempt by terrorists on the Bakassi Response Area in Monguno town. “Two of the terrorists were neutralised while some fled with severe gunshot wounds. “One AK 47 rifle with two-loaded magazines were captured along with several items which include mobile phones and five newly acquired motorcycles,” Zubairu said. He said that five people  were picked up by the army around the area during the operation and gave been united with thier families after investigation revealed that they had no connection with the terrorists. “In compliance and adherence to the International Humanitarian Law as well as international best practices on armed conflicts, the troops profiled the suspects and there after handed them over in good health and sound minds to their respective families and authority.” He said the Sector Commander, Maj. Gen. Abdulsalam Abubakar, commended the troops for their gallantry and professionalism in the fight against the insurgents. Abubakar called for more collaboration and support from host communities for maximum results. (NAN) By YAKUBU UBA Mutkut (right) handing over the command of sector 3 to Abubakar MAIDUGURI- Brig.-Gen. A.E Abubakar assumed duty as the new Commander of Sector 3 of Operation Hadin Kai and Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF), Monguno in Borno.A statement on Friday by Maj. Ojo Adenegan, the Acting Deputy… In "Metro" By Sumaila Ogbaje Abuja - The Nigerian Army Troops of 242 Battalion in conjunction with elements of Sector 2 Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) and Chadian Defence Forces (CDF) have overran Boko Haram terrorists and killed 15 of them in Borno. The Nigerian Army Operations Media Coordinator, Col. Aminu Iliyasu,… In "News" By YAKUBU UB MAIDUGURI- Gov. Babagana Zulum of Borno has reiterated his administration’s commitment to sustain support to the military and other security agencies in the fight against insurgency.Zulum made the declaration on Sunday in Monguno during his visit to the headquarters of Sector 3 of Operation Hadin Kai and… In "Security"