Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky has appointed former Nigerian minister, Mrs Obiageli Ezekwesili, as an ambassador of ‘Grain from Ukraine.’ The programme is an initiative of the Ukrainian government to assist countries suffering from severe food shortages relative to the war with Russia. Head Office of the President of Ukraine, Andriy Yermak, disclosed that Ezekwesili and her colleagues are joining international experts and leaders to support the initiative. Since the initiative’s launch in November 2022, more than 30 donor countries have signed up. Yermak added, “We see the prospect of expanding the project. To do this, we need reliable partners with knowledge and extensive connections. Ezekwesili, on her Facebook page (Oby Ezekwesili), gave a reaction over her new appointment where she wrote, “I am delighted to accept the invitation of President @Zelenskyy to be one of 3 leading African experts recently named as Ambassadors of the “Grain from Ukraine” initiative. “Glad to be joining @DrJoyceBanda and @ChrisFomunyoh on this crucial program to stem food insecurity.” (Saturday Tribune) Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, has made a jibe at a former presidential candidate and former education minister, Oby Ezekwesili. A Twitter user, Christopher Okagbare, had on Sunday queried the presidential spokesman for being silent on several attacks launched at President Muhammadu Buhari… In "News" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former Minister of Education, Oby Ezekwesili has berated President Muhammadu Buhari over the $382 million loan collected from Chinese govdrnment. Ezekwesili described President Muhammadu Buhari’s signing of a $382 million loan deal with the Chinese Government as a bad move. In a series… In "News" An international appointment has been given to a former Minister of Education, Dr Obiageli Ezekwesili. The former Minister is now a member of the Board of Directors of Nexford University, Washington D.C., United States. This was contained in a statement on Wednesday by the online university. The university said the… In "Politics"