By Raji RasakBadagry (Lagos State), – The Police, on Friday, arraigned a 20-year-old man, Mudasiru Umaru, at a Badagry Chief Magistrates’ Court, over alleged theft of four air conditioner copper pipes valued at  N158,000. The defendant, whose address was not provided, is standing trial on a two-count charge of stealing and breach of peace for which he pleaded not guilty. The Prosecutor, ASP. Clément Okuoimose told the court that the defendant committed the offences on Jan.11, at Adefalujo St., Oko-Afo, Lagos. Ukuoimose said that the defendant allegedly stole four air conditioner pipes valued at N158,000, property of one Funmilayo Quadri, the complainant. He said the defendant conducted himself in a manner likely to cause breach of peace by forcing himself and unlawfully stealing the pipe. “The defendant was caught carrying the pipes on his head and when he could not give account of himself, he was handed over to the police for investigation. “The offences contravened Sections 287 and 168 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015,’’the prosecutor said. Chief Magistrate Fadahunsi Adefioye granted the defendant bail in the sum of N200,000 with two sureties in like sum. The court adjourned the case to Feb.13, for mention. (NAN) By Chinyere Omeire Lagos - A 26-year-old man Matthew Edet, was on Tuesday arraigned in an Igbosere Magistrates’ Court, Lagos, for allegedly burgling his employer’s house and stealing property worth N14.5 million. The defendant whose residential address was not given, is facing trial on a 20-count charge, bordering on conspiracy,… In "Metro" By Adepote Arowojobe Ikorodu(Lagos State) - A 19-year-old man, Adeku Akintayo, on Monday appeared before an Ikorodu Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State for allegedly stealing N158,000 and a Glo sim card. Akintayo, whose address was not provided, is facing a three-count charge of conspiracy, felony and stealing to which he… In "Metro" By Olaitan Idris Lagos, - A Surulere Chief Magistrates’ Court, Lagos State, on Friday remanded a teenager, Fawas Adedokun, for allegedly burgling an apartment and stealing property worth N286,000. The Magistrate, Mrs Sadiq Bello, ordered that the defendant should be kept at the  Ikoyi Correctional Centre pending review of the… In "Metro"