By MUHAMMAD NASIR SOKOTO- Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Sokoto State has received hundreds of defectors from other political parties. The defectors included the nephew of the All Progressives Congress (APC) leader in the state, Sen. Aliyu Wamakko (APC-Sokoto North), Zayyanu Wamakko. Receiving the new members in Sokoto on Monday, Gov. Aminu Tambuwal, of the state appreciated their resolve to join the train of PDP. Tambuwal, who is the Director General of the PDP Presidential Campaign Council thanked the people of the state for their sustained support to his administration and the PDP. “Therefore, I want to advics our teeming youths to keep their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) safe and engage in house to house campaign fore more support to guarantee the victory of PDP at all levels,” he said. The governor further described PDP as the best choice for Nigerians. “A PDP government, if elected, has designed workable strategies to end banditry, fight corruption, unemployment, address infrastructural decay and boost the socio-economic life of Nigerians among other issues,” he added. In his remarks, Malam Sa’idu Umar, the Sokoto gubernatorial flag bearer of PDP pledged to sustain Tambuwal’s legacies and do more, if given the mandate. The state Deputy Governor, Alhaji Manir Dan’iya, who is also the Senatorial candidate of Sokoto North Senatorial District expressed optimism that he would emerge victorious. Dan’iya urged the youths not to compromise peace throughout the electoral processes, appealing to them to always respect constituted authorities. (NAN) Habibu Harisu Sokoto -  Sen. Aliyu Wamakko (APC Sokoto) says defectors to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other political parties from All Progressive Congress (APC) will regret their actions. Wamakko stated this on Saturday at special rally in support of President Muhammadu Buhari and APC leadership organised by party loyalists… In "Politics" By MUHAMMAD NASIR Senator Aliyu Wamakko SOKOTO- Sen. Aliyu Wamakko (APC-Sokoto North) has inaugurated 150 All Progressives Congress (APC) youth support groups in Yabo Local Government Area of Sokoto State. This development is contained in a statement issued on Sunday in Sokoto by Malam Bashar Abubakar, the Special Assistant on… In "Politics" By MUHAMMAD NASIR SOKOTO- The leadership of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) in Sokoto state led by the party’s governorship candidate, Sa’idu Gumburawa, had joined the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. This development is contained in a statement issued to newsmen on Saturday by Bashar Abubakar, the Special… In "Politics"