The Lagos State Police Command has refuted the claim that a new Commissioner of Police has been deployed to take over the security affairs in the state. The rebuttal was made in Lagos, on Friday. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Benjamin Hundeyin, who confirmed the development in a statement, said the news in circulation that a new CP had taken over the command was false. He explained that the command had been inundated with requests for clarification on the status of the commissioner of police in the command. An online medium had on Thursday, reported that a minor reshuffle had taken place in the Force which affected some senior officers including the Lagos Police Commissioner Abiodun Alabi and his Ogun counterpart. The report had mentioned one-time image maker of the police in the state, Frank Mba, as the new Commissioner. In reaction, Hundeyin dismissed the report as a hoax. He stated; “We wish to state categorically that the Commissioner of Police in Lagos State is still CP Abiodun Alabi, fdc, mnim, psc. “For the avoidance of doubt, no Commissioner of Police has been posted to Lagos State. Members of the public are therefore urged to disregard fake news making the rounds that a new Commissioner of Police has been deployed to Lagos State Police Command. “It is hoped that this clarification would halt the barrage of calls to officers of the command which has resulted in needless distraction and waste of valuable time. “The Lagos State Police Command will keep residents and the good people of the state updated whenever the need arises”. (TheNiche) By DEBORAH AKPEDE SP, Benjamin Hundeyin LAGOS- The Police Command in Lagos State has dismissed reports that a new Commissioner of Police has been deployed to the state. The command’s spokesperson, SP Benjamin Hundeyin, debunked the report in a statement he  on Friday. He said that the current Commissioner of… In "Metro" By Moses Omorogieva Lagos -  Mr Edgal Imohimi on Friday assumed duty as the new Commissioner of Police (CP) in Lagos State, spokesman for the Command, ASP Olarinde Famous-Cole, has said. Imohimi, a Deputy Commissioner of Police, assumed office following his confirmation as the new police commissioner in Lagos State… In "Metro" Lagos- The Lagos State Police Command on Tuesday said that it has uncovered a fake Facebook account bearing the name of its Commissioner, Mr Kayode Aderanti. This is contained in a statement by the Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP Kenneth Nwosu. ``The account in question which is `CP Kayode Aderanti’… In "News"