By SULEIMAN SHEHU IBADAN- The General Officer Commanding (GOC) 2 Division Nigerian Army, Maj.-Gen. Aminu Chinade, says honourIng fallen heroes is the responsibility of all and sundry. Chinade stated this when the Oyo State 2023 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration Committee, led by its Chairman Tayo Ayoade, paid him a courtesy visit on Tuesday at the Division’s Headquarters in Ibadan. The GOC said that the fallen heroes lived and laid down their lives for the unity of the country, it’s people and those yet unborn. He said the yearly celebration and honouring the fallen heroes was a task that needed to be accomplished by all and sundry. The GOC commended members of the committee for their commitment and zeal for the celebration and the progress made so far. Chinade urged the committee not to relent until remarkable achievement was attained and assured them that the division would continue to handsomely support them, the veterans and their families in its Area of Responsibility. Earlier, Ayoade said that the veterans and families of departed heroes deserved the best. He said that Nigerians should be willing to donate towards their welfare and honour those that have died and support to their families, to serve as a morale booster to those still living. He solicited for the support of the division towards achieving its mandate and all the activities lined up for the celebration. The Armed Forces Remembrance Day is celebrated in Nigeria annually on Jan. 15, to honour and respect the fallen heroes, veterans and the serving personnel of the Armed Forces.(NAN) By SULEIMAN SHEHU Maj.- Gen. Aminu Chinade IBADAN- The General Officer Commanding (GOC) 2 Division, Nigerian Army, Maj.- Gen. Aminu Chinade, has described the establishment of the National Centre for the Control of Small Arms and Light Weapons as very appropriate and timely, based on Nigeria’s security situation. Chinade stated… In "News" By IMELDA OSAYANDE Major General Aminu Chinade BENIN- The General Officer Commanding (GOC) 2 Division of the Nigerian Army, Maj.-Gen. Aminu Chinade, has warned soldiers not to aid or abet electoral malpractices in 2023.Chinadu issued the warning on Tuesday, when he paid familiarisation visit to the Headquarters of 4 Brigade in Benin.He… In "Metro" A serving two-star general in the Nigerian Army, Aminu Chinade, has established a foundation for orphans and vulnerable children in his Chinade community in Katagum Local Government Area of Bauchi State. The reports that Chinade was recently promoted to the position of a major general in the Nigerian Army. Chinade announced the setting up… In "Politics"