…Calls for immediate disbandment of Ebube Agu in Imo State …Urges security agencies to arrest and question Mr. Chinasa Nwaneri following evidence of his threats to Ikenga Ugochinyere before the attack Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has lamented the increasing spate of insecurity in Imo State which has made it impossible for the party to reach out to the electorate through open Rallies. The party also called for the immediate disbandment of Ebubeagu alleging that make-up of Ebube Agu are shrouded in secrecy and are bearing arms despite receiving such training. Similarly, the PDP Imo State calls for the immediate arrest and questioning of Mr. Chinasa Nwaneri following evidence of his threats to Ikenga Ugochinyere before the attack on the latter. This demands were contained in a statement signed by the State Chairman, Engr. Charles Ugwuh, made available to Sundiata Post on Wednesday. The statement titled “ATTACK ON IKENGA IMO UGOCHINYERE” reads in full: We draw your attention to the worsening insecurity in Imo State, and to the growing threat it represents to our Party’s preparations for and voters’ participation in the impending general elections. In view of the use of the Ebube Agu security outfit as a private Army by the Government of Imo State.Considering that the outfit has escalated rather than reduced the security challenges in the StateWorried that the outfit may have been infiltrated by non-State actorsRealizing that the make-up of Ebube Agu are shrouded in secrecyAware that members of the outfit which now bears arms are not trained, the Peoples Democratic Party Imo State calls for the immediate disbandment of Ebube Agu in Imo State. That since H. E. Senator Hope Uzodinma claims to have knowledge of the agreement between Ikenga Ugochinyere and the Unknown Gunmen, he should release the agreement and names of the unknown gunmen to Security Agencies for arrest and immediate prosecution. PDP Imo State calls for the immediate arrest and questioning of Mr. Chinasa Nwaneri following evidence of his threats to Ikenga Ugochinyere before the attack. That all Security Personnel attached to Chinasa Nwaneri be withdrawn since he is not entitled to such That Ugochinyere Ikenga and indeed all PDP Candidates and Leaders be provided with police security in view of evidences of threats to their life. That the intelligence gathering capacity of the Security Agencies in the State should be further strengthened through the deployment of technology, to enable them adopt a preventive approach to security management in place of the current counter-productive combat strategy. That your office should take any other steps deemed appropriate to adequately secure the State and restore public confidence in this regard, particularly before and during the elections. We call on the National Security Adviser, the Inspector General of Police and the Director–General of the Department of State Security to review the entire security architecture and security personnel deployed to Imo State with a view to tackling the fostering insecurity in the State. That if the insecurity in Imo State persists, the President and Commander in Chief, Mohammadu Buhari should declare a State of emergency in Imo State. As responsible and patriotic stakeholders in Imo State, we can no longer continue to live in denial of the fact that Imo is a peculiar conflict State that requires creative and responsive intervention to manage. Since time is of the essence of our request, we are confident that you will appreciate and respond to our concerns in your usual timely manner. Engr. Charles Ugwuh, OONState Chairman