By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The General Officer Commanding (GOC) 3 Division Nigerian Army and Commander Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), Maj. Gen. Ibrahim Ali has said his sojourn in Plateau as the Commander OPSH and GOC 3 Division was a learning experience which has made him a complete person. Gen. Ali said his success story cannot not be told without acknowledging his resilience in prayers, commitment and support from elders, friends of the military and dedication of the security agencies of 3 Division and OPSH. Recalling some of the earlier challenges he faced when he first reported on the Plateau, the Army boss said he is glad that he is leaving a more peaceful Plateau than he met it. The GOC was speaking during a special dinner night organized at the weekend in his honour as he prepares to take up a new appointment as the newly appointed Theatre Commander Operation HADINKAI North East. The dinner organised by some critical stakeholders on the Plateau was aimed at extolling his good virtues, as they described him as one of the best commanders of the troops of the Special Task Force deployed on the Plateau, Bauchi and Southern Kaduna States. “I am leaving 3 Division and OPSH with a wealth of knowledge I will always treasure. My tenure can be described as a fantastic learning experience that has made me a complete and well-rounded person. I have learnt to be an open minded person and to value other people’s opinion”, Ali said while appreciating the stakeholders. Speaking earlier during a welcome address, the President Mess Committee, Rhino Officers Mess Jos, Brig. Gen Michael Agi, thanked the Army boss for being a good mentor worthy of emulation and wished him success in his new appointment. The dinner night was well attended by government officials, retired generals, traditional rulers, media gurus, heads of security agencies and heads of higher learning institutions as well as serving military officers and friends, a statement signed by the Acting Deputy Director Army Public Relations Lieutenant Colonel Ishaku Takwa said. Our correspondent reports that the outgoing GOC was described as an exceptional, visionary and selfless leader that has impacted positively on the masses.