Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI will be buried in the crypt under St. Peter’s Basilica, the Vatican said Saturday afternoon. According to a funeral programme released by the Vatican, his body will lie in state in St. Peter’s Basilica from the morning of Monday, January 2, 2023, until his funeral Mass in St. Peter’s Square on January 5, 2023. The tombs in the Vatican crypt are close to the remains of the Catholic Church’s first pope, St. Peter the Apostle. Benedict XVI’s remains will stay at Mater Ecclesiae Monastery until January 2, 2022, the Vatican said. No official visits or public prayers are planned. His body will lie in state from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. on January 2, 2023, and from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. on January 3 and 4, 2023, in St. Peter’s Basilica, where members of the public may pay their final respects. The funeral Mass on January 5, 2023, will take place at 9:30 a.m. in St. Peter’s Square. Attendance is free and requires no reservation. At the end of the Mass, there will be the Final Commendation and valediction before Benedict XVI’s coffin is carried to the Vatican crypt for burial. Vatican on Saturday said Pope Francis will celebrate funeral for Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI. Sundiata Post recalls that Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI died on Saturday at the age of 95 “On Thursday, January 5, at 9:30 a.m. (0830 GMT) the funeral is expected to take place in Saint Peter’s Square, presided over by the Holy Father,” Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni told journalists at a special briefing following the death of the first pontiff to resign in six centuries. Pope Benedict XVI (sitting down) with Pope Francis Vatican on Saturday said Pope Francis will celebrate funeral for Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI on Thursday, January 5, 2023, in St. Peter’s Square. Sundiata Post had earlier reported that former Pope Benedict XVI died this morning at the age of 95. “On Thursday, January 5,… In "News" Late Pope Benedict XVI...GETTY IMAGES Former Catholic pontiff, Pope Benedict XVI has died at his Vatican residence, aged 95, almost a decade after he stood down because of ailing health. He led the Catholic Church for less than eight years until, in 2013, he became the first Pope to resign… In "Top Stories" Vatican City  -  Pope Francis on Tuesday in Vatican City led a mass with top cardinals in a heavily policed St Peter's Square to inaugurate the Jubilee of Mercy. Jubilee of Mercy is an 11-month festival that offers the faithful a general pardon for their sins, with the 500-year old… In "Foreign"