Lagos state – The police in Lagos state have arrested a mother and her partner for allegedly battering her two children aged 5 and 2. The woman identified as Busola Oyediran and her partner, Akebiara Emmanuel, were arrested on Friday, January 13, by the police following reports by neighbours. The concerned neighbours had alerted the police of the consant physical abuse of the minors by their biological mother and her partner. Following the report, the police stormed the Egbeda/Idimu home of the couple and arrested them. The police later visited the hospital where the neighbours had taken the battered children for treatment. When confronted, their mother claimed the children fell from a motorcycle and suffered serious injuries. Confirming the arrest to LIB, the spokesperson of the state police command, SP Benjamin, said the couple is currently in detention and will be arraigned in court by Monday, January I6. He said the father of the children has been alerted. See photos of the battered children below… 7 A mother-of-five, Beatrice Mbari, has called for justice after she was allegedly beaten to pulp by her husband following a disagreement with his lover in Bundu Ama community, Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital. Speaking to the media in Port Harcourt, the distraught woman said she could hardly see with her eyes due… In "News" Ogun State Police Command has arrested one Olanrewaju Bamidele for allegedly beating his wife Adenike Olanrewaju to death. Ogun State Police spokesman Abimbola Oyeyemi, in a press statement, said Bamidele was arrested after his son, Ayomide Olanrewaju, reported that his deceased mother was murdered by his father following a misunderstanding… In "News" A teacher, Abimbola Olamide, has been arrested by policemen from the Lagos State Police Command for allegedly stabbing her husband, Dare Akinbobola, to death at their residence in the Ikorodu area of Lagos State. It was gathered that there was an argument between the couple on Wednesday, which degenerated into… In "Metro"