…As Rotarain Joy Okoro says that future of Rotary is in interacts and rotaracts By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The President of the Rotary Club of Abuja Municipal, Rotarian Emeka Iloegbunam has said that the goodwill rotarians get from God when they serve society is what keeps them going. Iloegbulam who is also the President of the presidents, stated this while fielding questions from newsmen on the side line during the 2023 new member orientation and training program, a joint project of all Rotary Clubs in Abuja in synergy with the District Training Team held on Saturday at Sundralia Hotel Abuja. While reacting to the aims and objectives of the orientation and training program, Rotn Iloegbunam said it is to let members know among other things what the club holds for them and what expectation it holds of them as members. Adding that unless all these are made known to them, it will be difficult for them to get involved and this also offer them opportunity to network. According to him, it is for this reason that the presidents came together and said that for them to have quality members, there is need to train them and engage them by educating them on the basics of the organisation called Rotary such as; What is Rotary all about? When was it formed? What doest it do? Who are members? What will you get in return as a rotarian because truly we get things in return. He went further to say. “that what Rotarians get may not be money bur the goodwill we get from God when we serve society is what keeps us going. Many may not know that the reason why you are not in the hospital, the reason why you are not eating from the dustbin is because of the goodwill we get from service we render. Earlier in her presentation on the future of Rotary, Rotarian Joy Okoro said that the future of Rotary is in interacts and rotaracts and therefore, urged the in-coming Presidents to encourage young ones to join Rotary club. Rotn Okoro who noted that some of their members are leaving the club, attributed it to lack of adequate information about Rotary, thanked the organisers of the event and said it is one of the most important program that should be adopted. She added that the future of Rotary is in interacts and rotaracts. Rotn Okoro called on in-coming Rotary Presidents to encourage the young ones to step forward and join Rotary club. Similarly, the Governor of District 9125, Rotn Goddy Nnadi enjoined Nigerians to join Rotary because it will help them to network, get them committed to charity work and prepare them to be willing to give from whatever they have to support the needy in the society. He highlighted that Rotary has done a lot across Nigeria in terms of providing healthcare, fighting of polio, provision of blood bank for accident victims, building of school, provision of pipe borne water among others. Also in his keynote speech, the Ditrict trainer, Rotn Chijioke Ekechukwu admonished Rotarians to avoid the use of abbreviations and errornous assumption that all members know the meaning. He said it is because of this that people join Rotary and leave just immediately because it is bored to them and they don’t understand the meaning of those abbreviations. He therefore tasked Rotarians to google ABC of Rotary and read to have full grasp of what Rotary stands for and means. L-R: Past Assistant Governor, Rtn. Elvis Obaseki, Immediate Past President, Rtn. Victoria Unauromi, the new President of the Rotary Club of Abuja Maitama, Rtn. Yusuf Alli, a former Governor of Borno State, Sen. Kashim Shettima and Sen. Smart Adeyemi during the Investiture of Rtn. Yusuf as the 11th President of… In "Top Stories" (Sundiata Post) -- Rotary Club of Ikoyi under its Basic Life Support training programme recently extended its known humanitarian service to the Nigerian Police medical personnel with a training scheme for the personnel of the Police Hospital Falomo, on the delivery of the standard medical emergency support to patients. The… In "Metro" •The hall donated by Emeka Offor Foundation at the Rotary Centre By Lucy Ogalue ABUJA - Sir Emeka Offor Foundation (SEOF) has donated and inaugurated a hall worth N73.8 million to the Rotary District 9125. The founder of the foundation, Dr Emeka Offor, told newsmen at the inauguration on Tuesday… In "News"