The Duquesne Catholic University in the United States has expressed sadness over the death of a Nigerian professor, Marinus Iwuchukwu, who died on Tuesday. Iwuchukwu and a woman identified as Charce Dunn were found dead in Pittsburg Pennsylvania.They were found dead along Thorncrest Drive, Wilkins Township, Pittsburg on Tuesday after an alleged “domestic disturbance” around 10 am. The Allegheny County Police said they received a call to check on the well-being of a couple inside their home. According to the police, a third party was unable to reach the male resident and learned that the man had been stabbed. A woman remained inside the residence with a firearm. The SWAT team made entry into the home and found a 59-year-old man and a 50-year-old woman dead, Pittsburgh’s Action News 4 reports. Both appeared to have sustained lacerations, and the woman sustained an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound, police said. The police said the incident is being investigated as a suspected murder-suicide Reacting to the development, Duquesne Catholic University, where Iwuchukwu worked as an associate professor of theology until his death, commiserated with family and friends of the late don. “This is a tragedy for all involved and our thoughts and prayers are with Professor Iwuchukwu’s colleagues, students, friends, and loved ones,” the varsity spokesman Gabriel Welsch said in a statement. (The PUNCH) Lagos - A consultant dermatologist, Dr Glory Iwuchukwu, on Monday identified genetic factors, stress and poor nutrition as the major causes of baldness in middle aged men. Dr Iwuchukwu, who works at the Lagos University teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi-Araba, made the disclosure to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in… In "Health" Lagos -  A former employee of Newswatch, Mr Francis Iwuchukwu, has taken Newswatch Times Ltd (former Newswatch Newspapers Ltd) to the National Industrial Court of Nigeria, Lagos, over non-payment of his seven months’ salary. Iwuchukwu's suit was filed by his counsel, Mr Yemi Omodele. Iwuchukwu, in his statement of fact,… In "News" By Edeki Igafe Warri (Delta) -   The Anionwu family in Warri, Delta, have disputed the position of the police over the death of their son, Emeka. The elder sister of the deceased, Linian Anionwu, told newsmen in Warri on Monday that her brother (27) was murdered by some persons… In "Metro"