Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Presidency has criticised a founding member of the Arewa Consultative Forum, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai, for allegedly questioning President Muhammadu Buhari’s loyalties. This comes amid the ongoing electioneering for the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, of which Yakasai is an avid supporter. “Alhaji Tanko Yakasai is unknown to the All Progressives Congress, APC,” the President’s Senior Special Assistant, Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said in a statement on Wednesday. “Everyone is entitled to their view, but what we do know is that his insight in a recent interview does not come from within the party or the President’s team.” Shehu described the support of the northern elder for Tinubu as welcome, “although it is difficult to see what value it will add.” The presidential aide said Yakasai is right to highlight his experience as a senior citizen, a leader in government and ability to reach out across divides are strong foundations for the highest office. “But Yakasai’s questioning of the loyalties of President Muhammadu Buhari stands in sharp contrast to the actions of the President.” See the full statement below: ON ALHAJI TANKO YAKASAI’S QUESTIONING OF THE PRESIDENT’S SUPPORT OF APC AT THE FORTHCOMING ELECTION. “Alhaji Tanko Yakasai is unknown to the All Progressives Congress, APC. Everyone is entitled to their view, but what we do know is that his insight in a recent interview does not come from within the party or the President’s team. His support for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is welcome although it is difficult to see what value it will add. “He is right to highlight his experience as a senior citizen, a leader in government and ability to reach out across divides are strong foundations for the highest office. “But Yakasai’s questioning of the loyalties of President Muhammadu Buhari stands in sharp contrast to the actions of the President. Only on Monday, he was out at a rally in Bauchi supporting the flag bearer of the party. Presidential duties permitting, he is scheduled to make further appearances at campaign events in the coming weeks. ”His support for the party’s candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is unquestioned. “If this wasn’t on TV, Yakasai’s unwise comment on the issue would have been dismissed as a misquotation. But he was live on TV. “On this one against President Buhari, no one should take him seriously. “Perhaps times are hard and the old man needs a bit of help.” Garba ShehuSenior Special Assistant to the President(Media & Publicity)January 25, 2023