By Ige Adekunle Sango-Ota(Ogun), – A 48-year-old man, Samuel Imakwu, was on Monday docked before an Ota Magistrates’ Court in Ogun for allegedly defrauding a woman of N400,000.The police charged Imakwu, whose address was not provided, with fraud and obtaining money under false pretences.Police Prosecutor, Insp. E.O. Adaraloye told the court that the defendant allegedly committed the offence in June, 2022 in Iju-Ota area of Ogun.Adaraloye alleged that the defendant obtained N400,000, under pretences, from the complainant, Mariam Akorede to establish a farm plantation of 15 hectares of Maize and vegetables for Akorede.He said the defendant allegedly converted the money into personal use instead of fulfilling the agreement between them.The prosecutor said that the offences contravened Sections 390(9) and 419 of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ogun, 2006.The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty to the offencesThe Magistrate, Mrs A.O. Adeyemi, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N200,000 with one surety in like sum.Adeyemi said that the surety must resides within the court’s jurisdiction and must be gainfully employed with evidence of tax payment to Ogun government.She adjourned the case until Feb. 6 for further hearing.(NAN) By Ige Adekunle Sango-Ota(Ogun) - A 40-year-old man, Kolade Ayodeji, was on Monday arraigned in  an Ota Magistrates’ Court in Ogun over alleged breach of peace. Ayodeji, whose address was not provided, is facing a two-count charge of breach of peace and conspiracy to which he pleaded not guilty. The… In "Metro" By Ige Adekunle Sango-Ota - A 37-year-old man, Adebowale Anjorin, on Friday appeared in an Ota Magistrates’ Court in Ogun, for allegedly defrauding a man of N550,000. Anjorin, whose address was not provided, is facing a three-count charge of fraud, obtaining money under false pretences and conspiracy. He, however, pleaded… In "Metro" By Ige Adekunle Sango-Ota (Ogun), - A 53-year-old man, John Okeke, was on Friday arraigned before an Ota Magistrates’ Court in Ogun, for allegedly defrauding a man of N300,000. The police charged Okeke, whose address was not provided, with fraud and obtaining money under pretext. The Police Prosecutor, Insp E.… In "Metro"