By TAIYE OLAYEMI LAGOS- Omoyele Sowore, presidential candidate of African Action Congress (AAC) has pledged to address Nigeria’s security challenges, if given the mandate in the Feb. 25 general election.Sowore said this in Lagos on Tuesday at the 5th One Man Art, organised by Dr Bolaji Akinyemi.He said that Nigerians deserved to be protected by the government, irrespective of their tribe and religion.Sowore said that the insecurity in different parts of the country should challenge Nigerians to elect credible leaders in the general election.”The situation should challenge us to elect leaders that will priotise our safety and well-being.”If elected, my administration will invest in the protection of everyone, regardless of tribe and religion.”It is the president’s responsibility to ensure that the citizens are safe and secure, this, I will do if voted into power,” he said.The AAC candidate stated that the nation required leaders who were ready to make sacrifices in the interest of the citizenry.”We need leaders that are humble, devoid of greed, honest and ready to make sacrifices,” he said.Sowore advised religious leaders in the country to do more in offering humanitarian services in order to support the less privileged and the physically challenged. (NAN) The 2019 presidential candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC) Omoyele Sowore and activist, Deji Adeyanju are leading the Abuja #EndSAR anniversary protest. The protest holds at the Unity Fountain. Details shortly… Source In "News" Nigerian activist and politician, Omoyele Sowore is currently fighting members of his party, the African Alliance Congress at the headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission in Abuja. Sowore who came with his supporters is seeking to be recognised as orignal owner of the party. This comes after Chief Leonard… In "News" By Ismaila Chafe Abuja - The Presidency has dismissed insinuations in the media about the re-arrest by the Department of State Services (DSS) of Omoyele Sowore, saying no government will allow anybody to openly call for destabilization in the country and do nothing. The President’s Senior Special Assistant on Media… In "News"