By AWAYI KUJE LAFIA- Mr Mohammed Arikiya, a former aspirant for the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, has pledged their forum’s readiness to work for the victory of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Gov. Abdullahi Sule in the upcoming general elections. Arikiya, who was the former Speaker, Lafia Lcoal Government Legislative Council, also pledged their readiness to work tirelessly for the victory of the member representing Lafia North constituency at the state legislature, Alhaji Mohammed Alkali. The aspirant made the promise during the forum’s meeting with member representing the constituency and flagbearer for the state constituency election (Alkali) on Tuesday in Lafia. The News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN) reports that the forum is made of 12 aspirants, who contested during the party primaries. He said that the meeting was to assure the member representing the constituency at the state legislature of their support to enable him succeed in the election. They endorsed the candidature of the lawmaker, Alkali who is seeking for third term in office. “It is high time stakeholders set aside their differences and champion the course of the party, hence the need for this meeting,” he said. He assured Alkali that they would work tirelessly for him and other APC candidates during the elections. Arikiya also called on people of the constituency to rally round the lawmaker and other APC candidates come February and March elections. Responding, Alkali appreciated the aspirants for their readiness to work for the victory of APC in the general polls. Alkali, who is the Deputy Chief Whip of the House and Chairman Committee on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, said the meeting is a clear demonstration that APC is winning the forthcoming general polls in the state. The lawmaker said that following the meeting, his campaign council would be reconstituted to accommodate all interests. He warned his supporters against acts capable of truncating the victory of All Progressives Congress (APC). The lawmaker solicited support for Tinubu and Sule asmwell as other candidates of the ruling party. Besides, he called on APC members to let go of internal crisis from the fallout of primary election and work for the victory of the party at the polls. (NAN)