….Calls on South-East Governors to ban Ebubeagu By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – As the 2023 general election draws closer, Assistant Inspector-General of Police, (Retired), Dr Charles Ugomuoh has condemned the rising spate of insecurity in South-East, stressing that security agencies should be alive to their duties and responsibilities to ensure that the people from that region is not disenfranchised. This is also as he has called on the South East Governors to ban Ebubeagu if they are not complicit with the violence they are perpetrating. The Labour Party chieftain said that the advent of Ebubeagu has brought untold hardship to the people of the region especially in Imo and Ebonyi states where violence and terrorist actions are now pervasive. Ugomuoh, who is the Labour Party (LP) Governorship aspirant in Imo State made the call on Wednesday during a press briefing titled: “Insecurity in the South-East Nigeria a recipe for voter apathy” held in Abuja. The Retired AIG charged the five Governors of the South East to exercise the prerogative of governance and their oath of office in the protection of lives and properties of the citizens of the region. He also called on the Inspector General of Police and the Department of State Services (DSS) to ensure intelligence led policing, deployment of technology and pro-activeness to secure the people of the region. In his words: ” The security agencies must be proactive and resist compromise. This violence is a recipe for voter apathy and should not be allowed. A situation where deliberate violence and terrorists activities are deployed ahead of the 25th February 2023 genealogy election will disenfranchise the people and there will no longer be a level playing ground for all the contestants. Ugomuoh who noted that a sponsored sit at home in the South-East is now the order of the day, advised the people of the region to resist the bare-faced intimidation and unwarranted violence and troop out on election day to vote. While condemning the mindless killing of innocent citizens without the perpetrators being brought to book, the Labour Party South East National Security Coordinator said that the state governors must answer to where security votes are deployed since they are incapable of securing their states and the people. Stressing that it may not be unlikely that some state governments and misguided politicians are sponsoring this violence as a means to ride back to power and disenfranchise the citizens. Sundiata Post recalls that the sole administrator of a local government in Imo State was recently beheaded by by gunmen who are yet to be arrested by security agencies.  Founder of the Movement for the Actualisation of Sovereign State of Biafra and leader of the Biafra Independent Movement, Chief Ralph Uwazuruike, says the only security outfit recognised in the South-East region is Ebubeagu which was recently announced by the governors of the zone. According to him, the Eastern Security… In "News" The South-East security outfit, codenamed Ebubeagu, is yet to be officially launched, more than 62 days after governors of the states in the region unanimously announced its formation in Owerri, the Imo State capital. Ebubeagu, with headquarters in Enugu, was charged with the responsibility to coordinate all the activities of… In "News" •Ebubeagu  ABAKALIKI - Ebonyi State Government has unveiled the state chapter of the South East joint security outfit known as EBUBEAGU. Governors of the zone recently at a meeting in Imo state adopted EBUBEAGU as the unanimously accepted security outfit to fight insecurity in the zone.Commissioner for Internal Security and Border… In "Top Stories"