By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – An Osun State Media Organisation, “Iwo Press Club” (IPC) has described the engagement of one it’s members Mr. Oluniyi Isamotu as Special Media Assistant to the Governor of the State Ademola Adeleke as an honour to the Association and Iwo community at large. In a statement issued on Monday by the Group’s secretary, Hamid Akano , IPC commended the Governor Adeleke for such a gesture, stressing that Oluniyi is a versatile and multitasking Media practitioner who will be bringing his experience to bear in the discharge of his duties in the new government. The group in its statement appreciated the state Governor for his belief in indigenous media practitioners for effective public communication about his administration as against outsourcing such professional services to those from outside the state, noting that the appointment equally shows the new administration is Youths friendly. Oluniyi who until appointment worked as an Image Maker at the National Assembly was described as a round peg in a round hole. The statement reads in parts;“Oluniyi was also at a time a digital media strategist in a PR firm managing the public image of the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Oluniyi is the Creative Director of Prime-Image Media Magnate with focus on PR, Strategic Communication, Digital Marketing, Public Communications, Information management and an interest in Entertainment Entrepreneurship. “The new appointee is an editor for some notable online news medium and magazine outfit and equally a principal partner of an online radio organisation. “He is a public speaker often called “MC Malaga” as he’s a certified distinguished mic compere with several nominations as Best Master Compere in different award categories in the state. “He (Oluniyi) regarded his time at Reality Radiovision Service where he pass through mentorship under the likes of Barr Oyesiku Adelu (Maghadi), Mr Femi Awe a US-Based Nigeria veteran journalist, Mr Joshua Adegbite (GM, NewCruse FM), Mr Raheem Adekilekun, a one time NUJ Chairman (RRS Chapel), Mrs Dupe Akinyemi and several others as one of his best times that tutored him in becoming who he is today in the media and PR profession. “He equally does acknowledge the Spokesperson of the Executive Governor of Osun State, Mallam Olawale Rasheed “MOR” as one of his role models spanning 15 yrs and counting. The Press Club thereafter prayed for the appointee for a resounding success in his new assignment and assured him of their unrivaled support in the discharge of his duties for the government of Senator Ademola Adeleke and Osun State in general. By Ginika Okoye Abuja - President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of Alhaji Sabiu Abubakar and Mr Oba Oluniyi, as Deputy Commissioners for Insurance in the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM). The approval is contained in a statement issued by Mr Rasaaq Salami, NAICOM’s Head, Commissioner for Insurance Directorate, in… In "Politics" Abuja- The Federal Ministry of Water Resources has developed a 15-year strategic plan to develop 100, 000 hectares of irrigated agriculture in the country. The Director, Irrigation and Drainage, with the ministry, Mr Matthew Offie, disclosed this in an interview with the the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja… In "News" By Chibuike Nwabuko A governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Osun state, Senator Ademola Adeleke has congratulated the newly elected President of Nigeria's Chapter of International Press Institute (IPI) , Mr Musikilu Mojeed who is also the Editor-in-Chief of Premium Times newspaper. He also assured Mr Mojeed… In "Top Stories"