By SALISU SANI-IDRIS ABUJA- The Federal Capital Territory Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) says that there is nothing as good as working for humanity to save lives and properties. The Director, Forecasting Response Mitigation of FEMA, Mrs Florence Wenegieme, made the statement at a dinner to celebrate her 60th birthday and elevation to a Director in the FCT Administration, on Friday in Abuja. Wenegieme revealed that the agency was working assiduously to reduce its time of responding to emergency situation from five to three minutes. She added that with a power bike,, the first two respondents from the agency would be able to arrive at the scene within two minutes. The director lauded the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, the Minister of State, Dr Ramatu Aliyu, the FCT Permanent Secretary, Mr Olusade Adesola and the Director-General of FEMA, Abbas Idriss for her elevation to director , with more responsibilities. Wenegieme said: ” I’m overwhelmed and I can’t thank God enough. God has been faithful to me right from when I was growing up I know that a lot of things were delayed but God never denied me. ” So, all the days of my life I will live to praise and thank God for what He has done in my Iife and the life of members of my family. ”It is about my job? I can’t thank God enough because God gave me a job that I’m doing with passion and I’m doing it with all my heart. ” I’m always happy doing it and I do it with all my joy.There is nothing as good as working for humanity to saved lives and properties. “There is nothing as good as that and I do it with joy.I pray God should continue to give me the strength to be able to save more lives and properties.” Earlier, Idriss, who congratulated the director for the elevation and the 60 birthday, commended her tremendous contribution in saving lives and properties of the residents of the nation’s capital. ” I want to ask you to continue in that direction. On many occasions, we had to pull her from her husband  to attend to emergencies  and she has been doing it without any hesitation. ” And I want to attest here that at any point in time if I am not in town, once Mrs Wenegieme is in town, I’m very much comfortable and I can stay wherever I’m. ” She gives good representation and she is a fast learner when you ask her this is what you should do before you know it she will go and do it well,” the D-G said. On his part, Mr Joe Wenegieme, her husband, expressed gratitude to the Almighty God for sparing her life to witness her 60 birthday and elevation to the rank of a director in the FCT Administration. He said: ” We thank God for a day like this because it is by God’s grace that she got promoted in her place of work and particularly that she already reached the age of retirement and promoting has come. ” So, all we can just say is to thank God and wish everything she wishes herself. God blessings, protection and upliftment.” Also, the former First Lady of Kaduna State, Dame Amina Yakowa, who extolled the virtues of Wenegieme, prayed to God to continue to make her keep ageing gracefully to be able to achieve what God has destined for her to achieve in her life time. Yakowa said: “My message to her is that of hope, good life and so many celebrations in her life.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the highpoint of the event was the donation of a motorcycle, helmet and protective jacket to FEMA by the family of the  Wenegieme, to enable the agency save more lives and properties in the nation’s capital. (NAN)