By IBRAHIM KADO YOLA- The ancient town of Yola in Adamawa is full of activities as President Mammadu Buhari is expected to arrive the state for the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign rally.The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Buhari is expected to arrive the Yola Internatinal Airport by 10.30 a.m for the event on Monday.Adequate security measures had been put in place following strategic deployment of security personnel within and outside the Mahmud Ribadu Square venue of the event.On arrival, the president is expected to pay homage to the paramount ruler of the state and Lamido Adamawa, Alhaji Barkindo Aliyu Mustapha, after which he would proceed to the venue of the meeting.NAN also reports that politicians, well wishers, especially the loyalists of the APC, have been mobilised in anticipation of the arrival of the august visitor.Mr Samaila Tadawus, the state APC Chairman, expressed optimism that the coming of the president would further increase the electoral chances of the party, saying Buhari’s presence will definitely add value to our candidates.Tadawus said the party was heading for victory in all future elections, especially in the state governorship election where a female candidate, Sen. Aishatu Binani, is contesting. (NAN) By Muhammad Auwal Yola -   Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the Adamawa Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has inaugurated Enlightenment and Campaign Awareness Ambassadors. Mr Wafarniyi Theman, the State Secretary of APC inaugurated the group on Saturday in Yola. Theman said that among the core objectives… In "Politics" By Martins Abochol Yola -   Gov. Mohammed Bindow of Adamawa on Monday said that President Muhammadu Buhari remained an unbeatable candidate for the 2019 presidential election. Bindow made the declaration at the inauguration of the 2019 APC campaign team for Yola North Local Government Area. He said that the… In "Politics" By Ahmed Ubandoma Yola -  The wife of the President, Mrs Aisha Buhari, has arrived Yola,  Adamawa in continuation of her nationwide empowerment programme for women and youths. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that during the visit, Buhari is expected to distribute tricycles, grinding and spaghetti machines to… In "News"