By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has reacted to complaints from the electorates concerning the difficulties encountered in obtaining their Permanent Voters Cards (PVC) from the electoral body, stressing that it will ensure that all citizens have ample opportunity to collect their PVCs ahead of the February 25, 2023. Speaking to newsmen at the INEC Headquarters in Abuja on Friday, the commission’s chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu stated that they would ensure all registered voters have the opportunity to collect their PVCs ahead of the election. However, the commission is aware that there are a few issues to be addressed. One of them is the ongoing collection of Permanent Voter Cards, (PVC). He said, “The Commission is encouraged by the determination of registered voters nationwide to collect their PVCs and the actual level of collection so far. “For instance, in Lagos State, which has the highest number of registered voters in the country, the commission delivered 940, 200 PVCs from June 2021 to July 2022 for both new registrants and request for transfer and replacement of cards. As of yesterday, Thursday 25th January 2023, 839,720 PVCs have been collected representing 89.3 percent of the total figure of the new cards. “We have received reports from other states of the federation and the Commission will not hesitate to consider other measures to ensure that all citizens have ample opportunity to collect their PVCs ahead of the general elections. We wish to assure Nigerians that the Commission will always be responsive to the needs of the electorates.” By OLONIRUHA EMMANUEL ABUJA- The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed Feb. 4 for the conduct of mock accreditation of voters with its Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) in 436 polling units nationwide. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, made this known at a meeting with Resident Electoral Commission (INEC)… In "News" By Emmanuel Oloniruha   Abuja -  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it will print 16,500,192 Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) and make them available for collection by citizens ahead of the 2019 general elections. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, disclosed this at the regular meeting of the commission with… In "Politics" INEC Commences Nationwide Voter Registration April 27 In "News"