By AKEEM ABAS IBADAN- Rep. Shina Peller(Accord-Iseyin/Itesiwaju/ Kajola/ Iwajowa Federal constituency) has expressed confidence that 2023 would be a year of breakthrough for Nigeria. This is contained in a New Year message signed by his Press Secretary, Kola Popoola and made available to newsmen on Sunday in Ibadan. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that Peller, the Ayedero of Yoruba land, is the Accord Senatorial Candidate for Oyo North in the 2023 general elections. Peller said generations yet unborn would be told stories of historic events that would occur in 2023, if the present generation leveraged on the golden opportunity the year would present. “It will be a year of breakthroughs for Nigeria. Generations yet unborn shall be told stories of historic events that will occur if the present generation can make a statement,” he said. He said that the civic responsibility of every patriotic Nigerian was to make 2023 count by electing competent, patriotic, selfless and innovative leaders across political parties who would ensure functional system for Nigeria. “I believe that destiny, opportunity, and time are inextricably linked together. And 2023 presents to us,  a great opportunity to vote for public officers. “Officers that can identify with the plight of the people as the outcome of the polls will determine our collective future,” he said. Peller said that with numerous natural and human capital resources available to Nigeria, the country was unarguably destined to be great, adding Nigerians needed to make the resources count. “With numerous natural and human capital resources available to us, it is not debatable that Nigeria is destined to be great; we only need to make it happen. “We mustn’t fail to take advantage of this golden opportunity to vote right because if we get it wrong the unborn generations won’t be happy with us. “It is my greatest hope that we have transparent and credible polls that will reflect the true wishes of Nigerians,” he said. The lawmaker prayed that Nigerians witness more of the celebration on earth and in a greater Nigeria. (NAN)