By Olawale Akinremi Ibadan, – A mother of two, Aishat Zakaria, told a Mapo Grade ‘A’ Customary Court in Ibadan, to dissolve her marriage to husband, Taofeek, on grounds that he  maltreats her. The petitioner, in her application for divorce, called her husband a wicked man who forced her to observe ‘marathan fast’ during pregnancy. Zakaria, a building materials dealer, told the court that Taofeek patronises different occult houses and Marabous. ”My Lord. Zakaria accused of being being responsible for his retrogressive condition. ”He beats me and inflicts cuts on my body,” she alleged. Delivering the President of the Court, Mrs S.M. Akintayo granted the petitioner’s request for dissolution. She held that the petitioner’s application had merit since the marriage was valid via a customary process, based on the evidence tendered by the petitioner. Akintayo awarded custody of the two children Zakaria and asked Taofeek to take full responsibility of the children’s feeding, schooling and other welfare. She granted the order restraining the respondent from harassing, intimidating, molesting and interfering in the private life of the petitioner henceforth. (NAN) ( Abuja - An FCT High Court on Wednesday adjourned till Dec. 1 and Dec. 2, further defence in the alleged extra-judicial killings of six Apo traders by the police in Abuja in 2005. At the resumed hearing before the FCT Chief Judge, Justice Ishaq Bello, one of the defendants, Nicholas… In "Top Stories" By Olawale Akinremi Ibadan - A Mapo Customary Court in Ibadan, on Tuesday, dissolved a 16-year-old marriage between one Ajara Salami and Taofeek Salami over waywardness and promiscuity. In his judgment, Chief Ademola Odunade, the President of the court, said he dissolved the marriage because there was no more love… In "Metro" By Amen Gajira   Minna   -    A housewife, Mrs Hafsat Zakaria, on Friday sought dissolution of her 16-year-old marriage over alleged failure by her husband to provide food. Hafsat also told a Sharia Court in Minna that her husband, Mr Umar Aliyu, was not providing money for general maintenance of… In "Metro"