KANO – Valuables worth millions of Naira have been reportedly destroyed as a result of a fire incident that occurred at the Bompai headquarters of the Nigeria Police in Kano. A witness told Daily Sun that the fire started at about 2.00pm on Saturday adding the it affected structures from the Provost office down to the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Police. According to the witness, the fire however spared the office of the newly posted State Commissioner of Police and the block of offices adjacent to his own office. Several documents were believed to have been gutted by the inferno, said a witness who however added that there were no report of injury or loss of life of any sort as a result of the accident. The cause of the blaze could not be established as the Public Relations Officer of the state Fire Service and the Police dpokesman, Abdullahi Harua kiyawa could not be reached for comment. Meanwhile, the mid day fire has been put off by the officials of the State fire service. who were seen combating fire while the whole headquarters has been cordoned off by security personnel. (Saturday Sun) Kano State Police Command has said the late Kano State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Alhaji Munkaila Abdullahi, alongside his wife and two children were not burnt to death but died from inhaling hot and black smoke. At a press conference in Kano on Sunday, the Police Command’s spokesman, Magaji Majiya, explained… In "News" Six people were killed, including three police, in a suicide bomb attack at a petrol station in northern Nigeria’s biggest city Kano, police said, blaming Boko Haram militants. The blast happened at about 7:30 pm at the Nagarshiku filling station in the Hotoro area of Kano, causing a fire that… In "News" The Commissioner of Police in Enugu State, Mr Mohammed Aliyu, has ordered investigation into the fire incident at Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) headquarters in the state. Aliyu also directed a total cordon off of the premises to allow for proper investigation of the incident. The Police Public Relations Officer,… In "News"