By Salisu Sani-Idris Abuja, – The National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) and the Mutawwif Company of African Non Arabs, known as Muassassah, has signed an agreement on services to be provided during the 2023 Hajj operation. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NAHCON, Alhaji Zikrullah Hassan, made this known in a statement by the commission’s Assistant Director, Information and Publications, Mousa Ubandawaki, on Sunday in Abuja. Hassan said one of the major highlights of the meeting was the commitment made by the Muassassah to upgrade the feeding and Catering Services at the Mashair at five per cent discount over what was paid in 2022. According to him, based on the agreement Nigeria will pay less of what it was charged in 2022. “The pacts which were signed by the NAHCON boss Hassan and the the Chairman of Mutawwif Company, Ahmad Sindy, is part of the preparation for this year’s Hajj which is due in late June and is a follow up to the earlier meeting held between the two teams. ” The pact focused on the roles expected of the two parties during the Hajj. “It also covers the services to be provided to the pilgrims in the areas of enlightenment, guidance, movements and transportation especially during the Mashair.” Hassan recalled the ugly experience Nigerian Pilgrims went through during the 2023 hajj at the Mashair, which he said should not be repeated. ” Now that this year’s Hajj has begun, we want to know what services to expect at the Mashair to know what to tell our pilgrims at home. ” We are asking for better services this year and we want it at reduced price. “Though, we acknowledged the amount of investment made to upgrade the facilities at the Mashair which are long term, ‘ he said. In his presentation, the Chairman of Mutawwif Company, Ahmad Sindy, explained that the unfortunate incidence of 2022 won’t be repeated. He said they are more committed to the welfare and well-being of pilgrims through improved facilities and eco -friendly settings that would make pilgrims have good feelings. ” We will also upgrade the quality of food in terms of calories and weight. “In addition, we have contracted a well known nutritionist to ensure that the service delivery is best,” he assured. (NAN)