By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – National Judicial Council (NJC) has recommended the appointment of 93 judicial officers as judges and heads of courts across the country. This was disclosed in a statement on Friday by the NJC spokesman, Soji Oye. He said the decision was taken at the Council’s 100 th meeting which was held between January 18 and 19. The list of candidates was presented by the NJC interview committee at the meeting, and at the end of deliberations, the candidates were recommended. “All recommended candidates are expected to be sworn in after approval of the NJC recommendations to their respective State Governors and the respective State Houses of Assembly, as the case may be,” the statement partly read. The recommended judicial officers are listed as follows: Hon. Justice Muhammad Tukur Mu’azu Aliyu Hon. Justice Majebi Josiah Joe Hon. Justice Odusola Aiyedun Olusegun Hon. Justice Halima Sa’addiya Mohammed Hon. Justice Lilian Abai Hon. Justice Abdulateef Kamaldeen Hon. Justice Stanley Adekunle Lawal Hon. Justice Monisola Oluwatoyin Abodunde Hon. Justice Uhuo Patrick Uchenna i) Akinbinu Sylvester Femi ii) Leonard Boyede Ologun iii) Bolatito Florence Ajibade iv) Akinwumi Bankole Jacob i) Lawrence Babatope Ojo ii) Adegboye Rotimi Adesoji iii) Ogundele Olufolakemi Olufunke i) Amina Mustapha Ibrahim ii) Mohammed Maina iii) Hafsatu Isah Bappah iv) Bukar Malgwi Umar v) Mallam Buna Makinta i) Etomike Innocent Ndigwe ii) Tagbo Chinwuba Anieto i) Bashar Ibrahim ii) Fatima Ahmadu Suka iii) Abubakar Adamu iv) Kabiru Muhammad v) Amina Modi Yabo i) Idris Adamu ii) Mustapha Abdullahi Ahmad i) Oluwafunke Omolara Odubanjo ii) Adelaja Adeola Ireti iii) Basirat Bolanle Adebowale iv) Adebayo Bamidele Adedapo v) Ayodele Adebayo Omoniyi vi) Sunday Olufemi Adeniyi vii) Awofeso Ireti-Olu Babatunde viii) Abimola Christopher Shokunbi i) Charlie Ebiyon Duke ii) Ekadi Amadise Michael i) Esther Awo Ota ii) Ukeni Ogoke Stella Ejituruchi iii) Ruth Obaji Okeh iv) Blessing Ibeabuchi Chukwu v) Christopher Ofoke Mbam vi) Francis-Abba Solange Amaka i) Buhari Sani ii) Damachi-Onugba Agede Joyce iii) Hassan Muhammed Yakubu iv) Sandra Audu Yelwa v) Subilim Emmanuel Danjuma vi) Muhammad Adamu Hamza i) Okokon Edem Nyong ii) Amajama Jacob Eneji i) Christopher Dominic Mapeo ii) Ahmed Isa iii) Mohammed Ibrahim Tola iv) Benjamin Lawan Manji i) Isa Yusuf khalid i) Adabala Nicholas i) Asivosuo Maccarthy Oriye ii) Omonigho Nwibani iii) Comfort Ifikmotu- Awaji Adangor iv) Prince Chika Mini v) Beauty Ihuoma Emmanuel-Okere i) Odiki Daniel- Kalio ii) Tetenwi Ngeli Elerabari i) Abdullahi Muhammad Gusau ii) Umar Adulnasir iii) Saad Garba Gurbin-Bore iv) Muntaka Ahmad Ya’akubu i) Lasisi Muhammmed Adebayo ii) Awe Micheal Oludare iii) Fatimah Adejoke Sodamade iv) Owolawi Joseph Olukunle i) Adamu Mohammed Jajere i) Kasim Mohammed Kasim i) Yakubu Bodamasi ii) Abdullahi Isiaka iii) Buhari Mohammed Balarabe iv) Bashir Shitu Yusuf v) Nana Fatima Mohammed vi) John Aku Ambi vii) Joyce Asabe Akaa’ahs i) Aminu Ahmad Jumare ii) Nuhu Mahmud iii) Murtala Nasir iv) Abdulrahman Ibrahim iv) Mahdi Muhammad Suraj i) Dorothy Sim Inwulale ii) Atung Dorcaas Tabitta iii) Yusuf Yakubu i) Jettei T. Pekun.