By DAVID ADEOYE IBADAN- The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, says his government will make the South-West region industrial hub of the country, if elected as the nation’s President in the forthcoming general elections. Atiku made the promise while addressing PDP supporters on Thursday at the popular Mapo Hall in Ibadan. According to him, I am committed to making sure that industrialisation of the South-West is achieved and has the support of the Federal Government. “There are five major commitments to the people of this country. “We must make sure there is unity; we must make sure there is inclusion of every part of this country in our government. “We will also make sure that security situation is under control, so that there will be peace, law and order in every part of this country.” Abubakar promised. He solicited for the votes of the people of Oyo State with a pledge that his administration would provide good governance for Nigerians. In his remarks, the National Chairman of the party, Sen. Iyorchia Ayu, said PDP has a great dream for the country, adding that the party was gradually bringing the dreams to bear before APC took over power. Ayu called on all aggrieved members of the party, including the G-5 Governors led by Gov. Nyesom Wike of Rivers to return to the party to collectively work toward its success in the forthcoming general elections. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Gov. Seyi Makinde was absent at the campaign rally. The PDP chieftains including the Chairman of the Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) Gov. Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom; Gov. Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State; Mrs Titilayo Abubakar; Sen. Dino Melaye and former Minister of State for FCT, Jumoke Akinjide were present at the campaign.(NAN) By David Adeoye Ibadan -   Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP), has pledged that his administration will start the process of restructuring the country within six months of his inauguration. Atiku made the pledge on Thursday in Ibadan during the flag off of his… In "Politics" Top from clockwise: Atiku Abubakar, Rabiu Kwankwaso, Omoyele Sowore, Kola Abiola and Adewole Adebayo  IBADAN (Sundiata Post) - Some of the presidential candidates for 2023 general elections in Nigeria are set to hold a parley with the  South West Development Stakeholders Forum (SWDSF) starting from 17 January 2023 at Jogor… In "Politics" By EMMANUEL OLONIRUHA Alhaji Atiku Abubakar ABUJA- The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has commended the commitment and courage of the people of Oyo State for their support for its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, and all other candidates of the party in the 2023 general elections. The party said this in… In "Politics"