By Polycarp Auta Jos, – The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) said 16 persons died and 83 sustained various degrees of injury in the truck accident involving PDP supporters in Plateau. The FRSC said that the truck was conveying 99 supporters of the Poeples Democratic Party (PDP) when it crashed on Saturday evening at Jwak, Panyam District of Mangu Local Government Area of the state. Mr Peter Longsan, the FRSC Public Enlightenment Officer in Plateau, disclosed this in statement on Sunday in Jos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the PDP supporters were returning from the party’s zonal rally held in Pankshin. ”It was a lone crash involving a truck conveying people from a political campaign rally of the PDP. ”99 people were involved, 16 people, mainly adult males were killed in the crash, while 83 sustained various degrees of injury. ”The unfortunate incident occurred as a result of excessive speeding and overloading, which led to loss of control that resulted to the crash,” he said. Longsan explained that the Pankshin Unit Command of the FRSC swiftly responded to the incident, and with the support of passersby and volunteers, moved the injured to hospitals at Panyam and Mangu town, where they are currently receiving treatment. He added the bodies of the deceased persons were deposited at Mangu General Hospital, Panyam General Hospital, and Nissi Private Hospital, all in Mangu local government area. Longsan advised motorists in the state to desist from speeding, overloading, dangerous overtaking and ensure that vehicles are used for the purpose it was designed for. He also called on motorists, particularly commercial drivers, to install speed limit device on their vehicles to avert similar accident.(NAN)( By Polycarp Auta   Jos   -    The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) on Sunday confirmed that one person was killed and 27 others injured in auto crash in Jos. Mr Andrew Bala, the Public Education Officer, FRSC in Plateau, who confirmed this to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in… In "Metro" By Polycarp Auta Jos - An accident involving an articulated vehicle and a Volkswagen Sharon bus at Hawan Kibo area of Plateau has left five persons dead. Mr Andrew Bala, Public Education Officer of the Plateau Command of Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), confirmed to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)… In "Metro" Benin  -   The Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) in Edo on Saturday confirmed the death of two persons in a road crash involving two articulated vehicles at the Ovia River near Benin. [pro_ad_display_adzone id="70560"] The Tollgate Unit Commander, Mr Adewale Ameen, who confirmed the accident to the News Agency… In "Metro"