ABUJA – Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has appointed celebrated columnist and media icon, Mahmud Jega, as Special Adviser on Public Affairs. The APC candidate also on Sunday announced the appointment of award-winning investigative journalist Abdulaziz Abdulaziz as Special Assistant on Media and Publicity. PRNIGERIA had exclusively reported that Tinubu decided to make the appointment to inject fresh perspectives into his media strategy and strike the balance between the North and South since most members of the team were Southerners According to a statement issued on Sunday by Tinubu’s spokesman, Tunde Rahman, the APC candidate made the appointmentto “strengthen his media office with the injection of the two new aides.” Until his appointment, Jega, a renowned editor, was an in-house analyst for Arise TV and ran a weekly column for ThisDay Newspaper. He was also the editor-in-chief of an online publication, 21st Century Chronicle. Following his stint as a lecturer in biological sciences at his alma mater, the Usman Danfodio University, Sokoto, Jega haspractised journalism non-stop for more than three decades. For a total of 13 years, he was managing editor, editor, deputy editor-in-chief, and Editorial Board Chairman of Daily Trust Newspapers. Prior to that, he served as editor, New Nigerian Newspapers, editor of The Sentinel magazine, Kaduna, and Assistant Editor, Citizen magazine. Abdulaziz, a social media influencer, was until the appointment Deputy General Editor of Daily Trust Newspapers.He also anchored a morning show for the Trust TV, an arm of the Media Trust Group. He has experience spanning print, online, broadcast, and social media. He had worked as Correspondent, Bureau Chief, and Regional Editor for the LEADERSHIP Newspapers, before he joined Blueprint Newspaper, which he left in 2017 as deputy editor. Before joining Daily Trust at the beginning of 2021, Abdulaziz also worked with the frontline online newspaper, PREMIUM TIMES, as Associate Editor. Rahman, in the statement, said the “two appointees would deploy their expertise and deep understanding of political issues across the country, particularly the North, in shoring up the activities of the media team.” By KADIRI ABDULRAHMAN Senator Bola Tinubu ABUJA- Mr Akeem Agbaje, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, says Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is most formidable candidate for Nigeria’s presidency in 2023.Agbaje, who was a governorship aspirant in the recently concluded APC governorship primary in the state, said… In "Politics" Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu on Wednesday had his campaign rally in Niger State. Channels Television reports that the event happened at the Trade Fair Complex in Minna, the state capital and drew a crowd that gathered to catch a… In "Top Stories" By KADIRI ABDULRAHMAN Alhaji Mahmud Shinkafi ABUJA- Former Governor of Zamfara, Alhaji Mahmud Shinkafi, says a Tinubu presidency in 2023 will accelerate national growth and development.Shinkafi said this on Friday in Abuja while accepting his appointment as Chairman, Board of Trustees of a political support group, ‘Tinubu Support Group.’The News… In "Politics"