By Priscilla Osaje Abuja, – Veteran Nollywood actress, Mercy Johnson has debunked  rumours of having cancer , expressing  gratitude to fans for their calls and prayers over the worrisome news. The renowned actress, who took to her Instagram page on Sunday in a video clip to clarify  the rumours of her having cancer, said she only spoke of having cancer scare, which doctors felt  was  something serious. According to her, she is doing well and does not have cancer but she was only misunderstood with her explanation in her first video clip on ‘Mercy’s Menu’. She stressed that she only had problems with her thyroid but  perfectly okay and does not have cancer. : “Hi guys, Okay,  so first and foremost, thank you so much for all of you who have been calling and sending messages and prayers, thank you.  I do appreciate it so much. ” But, I do not have cancer. I noticed that a clip from my TV show, Mercy’s menu, has been flying around and I think they cut the clip. “I said I had a cancer scare, it means that I had this swelling on my neck and my doctors felt it was something serious. I had problems with my thyroid, I am perfectly okay. “Thank you so much for all of your calls and your messages, the phone has been buzzing like crazy, I am perfectly fine and I do not have cancer. ” I am perfectly okay. So thank you so much for checking up on me, thank you for sending those messages. “Go back and watch the clip, it was completely misunderstood, I am fine, I do not have cancer in Jesus name, thank you guys so much,” she wrote . Johnson is a Nigerian actress, politician and entrepreneur, who is good at what she does. The 38-years-old actress made her debut in the Nollywood industry in 2003, when she featured in a movie titled ‘ The Maid’ which brought her to limelight. The mother of four has starred in  over 200 movies which includes: ‘Dumebi the Dirty Girl’ ‘Coroperate Maid’, ‘Desperate Ladies’, ‘Heart of a figher’ among others. She has received numerous awards and nominations, due to  the ways she usually played her roles on movies. The actress has contributed immensely to the growth and development of the  entertainment industry, as such making her outstanding. She is married to Prince Odianosen Okojie and her union is blessed with four kids.( NAN) Priscilla Osaje Abuja - Nollywood actress, Foluke Daramola has debunked rumours of her untimely death. The actress made this known via her Instagram page, where she shared a video to buttress her point. In the video, Daramola, who was not happy over the widespread of the news, placed a curse… In "Entertainment" Abuja -  A popular Nollywood actress, Toyin Aimakhu has helped one of her fans, a cancer patient to raise more than N38 million needed for surgery to save her life. The patient, Mayowa Ahmed is suffering from ovarian cancer. The excited actress posted on her facebook and twitter accounts saying;… In "Entertainment" Aisha Abimbola who was fondly known as ‘Omoge Campus’ is dead, the Reports reaching us and confirm. A colleague of the actress who spoke on the condition of anonymity told NET that the actress who battled breast cancer secretly for years gave up last night in Canada. Obviously shocked by… In "Entertainment"