By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Governor Samuel Ortom has sympathized with members of thePeople’s Democratic Party, PDP who were involved in a road accident on their way to Igumale, Ado Local Government Area for the ongoing Statewide campaign rally. Governor Ortom who described the accident as unfortunate expressed appreciation to God that it was not fatal and there was no casualty recorded. The Chief Press Secretary to Benue State Governor, Nathaniel Ikyur disclosed this in a statement he signed and made available to Sundiata Post The Governor who spoke shortly after he visited the General Hospital, Igumale where the victims were being treated, directed that they be moved to Otukpo and Makurdi for greater medical attention. He used the moment to caution all drivers on the campaign train to exercise caution while moving in convoy. Among those injured were Hon. William Ortyom, member Benue State House of Assembly representing Guma State Constituency, Hon. Geoffrey Agbatse of Gwer-East State Constituency and Hon. Sugh Abanyi of Kwande West State Constituency. By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Ahead of the 2023 general elections, Benue State Governor, Dr. Samuel Ortom, has warned that any attempt by anyone or group to rig elections in the state will be met with stiff resistance. The Governor who stated this at the expanded caucus of… In "Top Stories" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom has advocated for collective efforts irrespective of religious, ethnic and political partisanship to salvage Nigeria from its current deplorable situation. Governor Ortom who spoke to journalists Wednesday, October 19th, 2022 in Abuja when he hosted the Presidential… In "Top Stories" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom says the G5 Governors are committed members of the People's Democratic Party, (PDP) and are working round the clock to ensure that the party wins all elections in their respective states. According to the statement signed by his… In "Photo News"