By Ugochi UgochukwuAbuja, – A Dei-Dei Grade I Area Court in Abuja on Monday sentenced a 20-year-old tricycle rider Isiya Mohammed to 11 months imprisonment for cheating a businessman. The Area Court judge, Malam Saminu Suleiman, gave Mohammed an option of N40,000 fine He also ordered the convict to pay N500,000 as compensation to the complainant. The judge however, warned him to be of good behaviour. Mohammed had earlier pleaded guilty and begged the court for leniency. Mohammed told the court to help him beg the businessman to forgive him. The Prosecution Counsel, Mr Chinedu Ogade,  had told the court that on Jan. 5  the complainant, Jamilu Abdullahi of Tipper garage Gwarinpa Abuja, reported the matter at the  Gwarinpa Police Station. Ogada said that on Jan. 2 the complainant gave the convict a Bajaji tricycle worth N600,000 for commercial purpose. He told the court that on Jan. 3 the convict called the complainant and claimed that the tricycle had been stolen. The prosecutor added that during police investigation, the convict could not give a satisfactory account of  where the tricycle was and all efforts made to recover if failed. Ogada further told the court that the offence contravened sections 382 and 322 of the Penal Code. (NAN) ( By zainab Oyekan Jos - A Chief Magistrate Court, sitting in Jos Metropolitan Development Board on Wednesday in Jos, sentenced a 48-year-old businessman,  Ahmed Mohammed to one year in prison for criminal breach of trust and cheating. The Judge, Roseline Baraje, who sentenced Mohammed, however gave him an option to… In "Metro" By Joy Kaka   Abuja   -     A Kubwa Grade I Area Court, on Wednesday, remanded a 45-year-old businessman, Chukwudi Nweke, in police custody over alleged threat to life and cheating. The judge, Abdulwahab Mohammed, who gave the order, following an application filed by the prosecutor, Urom Otu, said the remand… In "Metro" By Talatu Maiwada Abuja J - A businessman, Olusegun Olam, was on Thursday docked in a Kado Grade I Area Court, Abuja for allegedly defrauding Mr Moses Udoh of N16 million. The police charged Olusegun Olam of Federal Housing Lugbe, Abuja with criminal conspiracy, breach of trust and cheating. Th… In "Metro"