ABUJA – Director in the Bola Tinubu 2023 presidential campaign, Naja’atu Muhammad, has resigned. She was the Director of Civil Society in the Presidential Campaign Council of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Naja’atu’s exit comes one month to the presidential election. She announced her resignation in a letter dated January 19, 2023 and addressed to Senator Abdullahi Adamu, national chairman of the APC. Muhammed, who is a national commissioner at the Police Service Commission (PSC), said the challenges Nigeria faces required her to continue championing the struggle for a better country with a clear conscience. She attributed her withdrawal from party politics to recent developments in the country’s political and democratic space. The letter reads, “In line with article 9.5 (i) of the Constitution of the All Progressives Congress (APC), I am writing to you to intimate you of my resignation from the All Progressive Congress (APC). I am by this letter also informing you of my resignation as the Director of the Civil Society directorate of the Presidential Campaign Council of the APC. “It has been a great honour working with you to contribute towards the building of our dear nation. However, a number of recent developments in the country’s political and democratic space, make it impossible for me to continue to participate in party politics. “The challenges that Nigeria faces today require me to continue championing the struggle for a better country with a clear conscience as I remain absolutely loyal to my dear country Nigeria. “Kindly accept my most sincere appreciation for your leadership as the Chairman of the APC.” In a separate statement issued on Saturday, the activist said she quit partisan politics as the parties have no ideological difference. “After much reflection and careful consideration, I have decided to part ways with party politics. I have come to the realization that my values and beliefs no longer align with party politics. Our political parties have no ideological differences and are simply robes that politicians wear to serve their personal needs and interests at any given time. As a result of which we see politicians changing from one robe to another whenever it suits them.” She hinted that she would rather support the individual politicians to supporting the political parties. “What is important at this point in time is the individual wearing the robe and not the robe itself. I am committed to supporting individuals that are truly interested in addressing the root causes of our challenges as a nation. To remain true to such commitments, one must be willing to take bold and decisive steps. “Quitting party politics at this point in time is one of such steps. We all recognize that Nigeria is facing many challenges, including insecurity, poverty, inequality, and lack of access to basic services. Such challenges require the consolidated efforts of competent and patriotic leadership across every level of governance. “Nigerians must be aware of the severity of their situation after the dismal failures of leadership the country has experienced over the years. Nigerians must be aware of the consequences of their decisions and their choices. Therefore, restricting ones choice to a single political party will be detrimental to the development of our country and our democracy.” Muhammad is known for taking critical stance on issues. In November, she called for the prosecution of the first lady, Aisha Buhari, over the detention of a final-year student of Federal University Dutse, Aminu Mohammed. The student was arrested by plainclothes police officers and tortured after criticising the first lady on Twitter. By MUHAMMAD NASIR BASHIR Governor Muhammad Badaru JIGAWA- Gov. Muhammad Badaru of Jigawa on Friday urged electorate to vote for All Progressives Congress (APC) during the 2023 general elections for the crude oil deposit in the state to be explored. Badaru, while addressing party supporters during the APC governorship rally… In "Politics" By OLUKAYODE BABALOLA Senator Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu KEFFI- All Progressives Congress (APC) Youth Wing started its grassroots engagement on the presidential ambition of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in Nasarawa State on Saturday. Mr Dayo Israel, National Youth Leader of the APC confirmed the kick-off after visiting the Chairman of… In "Politics" By Muhammad Nur Tijani Kano, - The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for the Dawakin-Tofa, Rimingado and Tofa Federal Constituency, Abba Ganduje, says he will host the Super Eagles legends in Kano to kick-start campaign for the party’s presidential flag candidate, Bola Tinubu. This was disclosed in a statement by… In "News"