By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former governor of Plateau State, Amb. Fidelis Naanmiap Tapgun has expressed with sadness over the unfortunate accident which involved some supporters of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), while returning from a rally on Saturday. Recall it was gathered that some group of PDP supporters after the Party Campaign Flag-Off at Pankshin local government area of the State, yesterday was involved in an accident onboard a truck conveying them back home. It was reported that the incident which occurred close to an area known as Panyam bridge around Jwak village claimed the lives of several people. Reacting to the incident Tapgun said: “It is disheartening that these supporters who went out to show love to their party sustained various degrees of injury, while some paid the supreme price. This sad event is grievous as most of those involved are young people in their prime whose desire is to have a good and prosperous life in our dear State and nation. “My heart goes out to the families of those who lost their loved ones and those of the injured. I join in commiserating with them and praying that God will comfort them and grant speedy recovery and healing to the injured. “I express my thanks to many who have stood with the families and the party at this time of grief and pray that the days ahead will bring succour to us all”, he said. By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - A former Governor of Plateau State, Amb. Fidelis Tapgun, has warned the newly elected exco of the People's Democratic Party (PDP), not to jettison the zoning arrangement of the governorship seat in the State. Tapgun is giving the warning ahead of the 2023… In "Top Stories" By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - A former governor of Plateau State and a chieftain of the Peoples 1Democratic Party, Amb. Fidelis Tapgun, has congratulated the newly elected Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Sen. Iyorcha Ayu. Tapgun said with the emergence of the former xSenate President, Ayu,… In "Politics" By Polycarp Auta Jos, - The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) said 16 persons died and 83 sustained various degrees of injury in the truck accident involving PDP supporters in Plateau. The FRSC said that the truck was conveying 99 supporters of the Poeples Democratic Party (PDP) when it crashed on… In "Metro"