By Taiye OlayemiLagos, – The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) on Friday called on Africans, corporate organisations and others, to intervene in the humanitarian problem ,currently faced by women and girls in Somalia. Mr Niyi Ojuolape, Country Representative of the UNFPA in Somalia, made the call during an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. “At UNFPA, we look at things from the lens of women and girls,so the humanitarian problem we have in Somalia right now is such that we have 7.8 million people that are displaced and most of these people are women and girls ” So ,what we are doing is to make everybody to understand that it is not just an issue of hunger, but there is a way it affects women and girls specifically ” We call on Africans to look into this problem ,and in no small measure ,support the women. We are going to be launching a donation drive for the people and high network individuals to donate to the cause,” he said. Also, Ifrad Ahmed, a Somali-Irish social activist,who described situation in Somalia as ugly ,said that the people could only gain access to bad water as the children continue to suffer from malnutrition. She said the lingering humanitarian crisis in the war-torn African country had become worrisome,adding urgent help must be provided. Ahmed called on African artistes to lend their support by donating to the cause. Similarly, Mr Omar Osman, Secretary- General, National Union of Somali Journalists, said African solutions must be developed to solve African problems. ” What is happening in Somalia now is seen as twin crisis which are climate- induced crisis and humanitarian crisis. ” Women are facing sexual and gender-based violence, while they are running from other crises, so we are now seeking African solutions to African problems ” We want to raise the consciousness of our African brothers and sisters to the crisis being experienced in Somalia,  we want to generate political solutions and mobilise resources,” he said. NAN reports that the UNFPA engaged the recently- concluded 8th All-Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA), to sensitise African artistes on the hardships experienced in Somalia, to generate donations which can be used resolve some of the problems in the country. (NAN)