By Moronke BoboyeIkeja, – A truck driver and a teacher on Wednesday appeared before an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court for allegedly causing a road accident which resulted in amputation of a pedestrian’s leg. The accident also damaged a Toyota Highlander worth N4.5 million, according to the police. The 31-year-old truck driver, Godspower Echi, resides at Sagamu, Ogun, while the 40-year-old teacher, Olaoluwa Faronbi, lives at Ifo also in Ogun. They are charged with reckless driving, causing road accident, road obstruction, damage to property and causing bodily harm. The defendants, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges. The prosecutor, ASP Raji Akeem, told the court that the defendants committed the offences on July 29, 2022, near Abule Egba on the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway. Akeem said that the truck driver was reckless while the teacher drove a Toyota Corolla dangerously, causing the truck to hit a pedestrian, Mr Olawale Kolawole, whose leg was amputated. Akeem also said that the Toyota Highlander damaged by the accident was parked on a roadside. The alleged offences contravene Sections 36, 50, 51, 52 and 66 of the Road Traffic Law of Lagos State, 2018. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs B. O. Osunsanmi, granted the defendants bail in the sum of two million Naira with two sureties each. Osunsanmi adjourned the case until Feb. 27 for mention. (NAN) Abeokuta, - A 31-year-old man, Adebayo Sodimu, on Friday appeared in an Abeokuta Magistrates’ Court, Isabo, for alleged dangerous driving and causing the death of one Mrs Jelilat Reheem. Sodimu, of no fixed address, is facing a four-count charge bordering on dangerous driving, driving without licence, and causing the untimely… In "Metro" Lagos   -     A truck driver, Olalere Habeeb, who allegedly drove his truck into an office building, destroying property worth N2.2 million, was on Thursday docked in a Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court, Lagos. Habeeb, 33, whose address was not given, is facing a two-count charge of reckless driving,… In "Metro" A yet-to-be-identified driver has died after he rammed his truck into a stationary Dangote truck at the Kyakyama axis of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway on Thursday. The driver was said to be driving inbound Lagos when he lost control of the truck and ran into the Dangote truck that was parked… In "Metro"