By ADEREMI BAMGBOSE ONDO- Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State on Monday at Okitipupa appealed to voters to vote for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and for all candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the forthcoming elections. He charged the people of Ondo South senatorial district to vote for Dr Jimoh Ibrahim as senator. The governor made the appeal at the flag-off of the Ondo South Senatorial District Campaigns. Akeredolu, Director-General of the Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council in the Southwest, urged the electorates to vote only APC candidates from that of the president to those vying for seats at the national and state assemblies. He said APC had presented the best candidates who are up to the task of salvaging the country and the state. “We have arranged the best candidates so far, who are capable and have all it takes to change the narratives for Nigerians and residents of Ondo State to enjoy better dividends of democracy. “I urge you Ondo South electorates to vote Tinubu, Ibrahim and all APC candidates across board,’’ Akeredolu charged. He handed over APC flags to Ibrahim and to all candidates of the party contesting for various positions. Earlier, Chief Ade Adetimehin, APC Chairman in Ondo State, said the party was waxing stronger and better because of the unity among members. He thanked Ondo South electorates for trooping out for the campaign flag-off, saying that they should turn out en-masse and vote for all APC candidates. “We urge you to troop out en-masse on Election Day and vote APC all through and do not be deceived by other people who are not stable. “They jump from one party to another; this kind of people cannot be trusted,’’ Adetimehin said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that a mammoth crowd who despised the scorching sun thronged the campaign flag-off as supporters wore different T-shirts, fez caps and carry placards of their candidates. The crowd was entertained and treated to high life and juju music by Prince Demola Suzy, an Ikale juju musician. (NAN) Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has urged traditional rulers in the state to use their positions to foster unity among their subjects and improve security within their respective domains. Akeredolu stated this on Saturday during the presentation of instrument of appointment and staff of office to Oba Orimisan Oguntusi,… In "News" By ADEREMI BAMGBOSE OKITIPUPA (ONDO STATE)- Dr. Jimoh Ibrahim, APC candidate for Ondo South Senatorial District in the forthcoming 2023 general elections, has condoled with Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, on the death of his mother. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mrs Grace Akeredolu, aged 90… In "News" By ALABA-OLUSOLA OKE Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu AKURE- A Chieftaiin of the All Progresives Congress (APC), Mr Femi Adekanmbi, says that Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State is the most qualified governor from the South-West to head the Bola Tinubu/Kashim Shettima Presidential Campaign Committee in the zone.Adekabmbi, a former Commissioner for… In "Politics"