By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Nigeria Police has shrugged aside defamation allegations by Prof. Zainab-Duke Abiola, a widow of the late Chief Moshood Abiola, and a suit to that effect wherein she is demanding N100 billion in damages. The Force Public Relations Officer (PRO), CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, in a statement on Wednesday, responded to Prof. Abiola’s allegations, describing them as holding no water. “The Nigeria Police Force wishes to state emphatically that Prof. Zainab Duke Abiola who was alleged of complicity in the grievous assault of a female Police Officer, Inspector Teju Moses on Tuesday 20th September 2022 at her residence in Garki, Abuja, along with her domestic staff including the housemaid, one Rebecca Enechido, and a male suspect currently at large, has a case to answer with respect to the allegations. “The FCT Police Command under which jurisdiction the matter transpired, has charged the suspects to court upon diligent investigation, and the case with charge no. CR/544/22 is ongoing and the next hearing will come up on 1st February 2023 at High Court 16, Zuba, FCT Abuja,” he said. According to the Force PRO, the suspects have been charged with the offences of criminal conspiracy, attempt to commit culpable homicide, voluntarily causing hurt without provocation, and assault to deter public servant from discharge of his duty, among others. “The recent media row by the suspect is therefore unnecessary as the matter has not been concluded in court. It is similarly pertinent to note that the spurious allegations recently made in the news hold no water,” Adejobi said. “The Nigeria Police reposes confidence in the judiciary believing that the Courts will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that justice is done in the extant case. “The Police equally appreciate Nigerians and concerned individuals, groups, and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), who have shown interest in the matter and severally called for justice for the grievously injured Police Inspector.”