By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Endorsements for the return of Senator representing Abia-North, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu to the National Assembly soared on Saturday as the Senate Chief Whip transversed through additional wards in Isuikwuato LGAs whilst engaging constituents on the need to cast their ballots for his reelection. While interfacing with the people, Kalu took stock of various infrastructural projects executed in their communities and gave assurances to construct additional routes. Kalu the candidate of the All Progressive’s Congress (APC) got the backing of his constituents while making the final lap of his campaign tour of the 21 Wards of Isuikwuato Local Government Area after visiting the following places; Ndundu Ward 18; Agbama Isunabo Ward 20; Ikeagha 1 Ward 8; Ikeagha 2 Ward 9; Ugwuele/Mbaugwu Ward 19; Achara Ward 7 and ABSU / Umuanyi Ward 10. Kalu was accorded encomiums for expediting quality projects like rural roads, installation of solar street lights, sinking of boreholes, renovation of schools and health centres, youths and women empowerment, scholarships to Abia North students to study Medicine and Surgery in South America, Agricultural grants and many more. Right After embracing Kalu and his team, people of Ikeagha Ward 2 mentioned the construction of their community road which they described as the realisation of the promise he made to them in 2019. Afterwards they conferred their endorsement on Kalu’s re-election promising to cast their votes massively in his favour during the February 25th polls. President General of Nvurunvu,Francis Ikwuaja who announced the community’s resolution said that they were optimistic that Kalu’s return to the Senate would translate to the facilitation of additional projects in their localities. Francis reassured Kalu of the community’s votes; “It’s not surprising that you have bagged prestigious awards on rural development because of what you have been able to do in just three years , being a first time Senator. “We have decided to support you fully with our votes , so that you can do more for us. We urge you to keep it up and we are solidly behind you and more awaits you at the Senate when you are reelected”. Similarly, at Agbama Isunabo Ward 20, another round of vote of confidence was passed by the community to adopt Senator Kalu as their sole candidate for the 2023 Senatorial elections. While announcing their resolve to align with Senator Kalu and his return ambition, the community’s prime minister, Chief Sunday Nnadi disclosed that Kalu’s maiden Senatorial outing has been fruitful and rewarding to their community. Nnadi urged the Lawmaker to pay more attention to their immediate Ward when he gets re-elected; “Our people passed a resolution to stand by Orji Kalu because he has done what he promised he’ll do for us in 2018. We also use this opportunity to ask him to extend this road to Isuikwuato when he gets elected for his 2nd term”. It was no different at Achara Ward 7 where the community declared solidarity for Kalu’s re-election. APC Ward woman Leader, Ms Nwankwo Florence said that asides the road Kalu had also empowered the women folk, stating that they would willingly cast their votes in his favour. At Ndundu Ward 8, the Chief Whip of the Senate landed the blessing of the constituents to run for another term at the Senate. Conferring the community’s support, National Youth President of Uturu, Chukwuemeka Chukwunenye, told Kalu that residents trust his capacity to continue his good works when he goes back to the Senate. “We will extend the already built 2Km Nvurunvu Road to Isuikwuato, but you have to vote for the APC with the broom logo. Make your support count by collecting your permanent voters card (PVC) . “If the community is good it is to the benefit of both the young and old male and female, rich or poor, that is why I have prioritised community development asides my lawmaking duties. The former Abia Governor also sought the understanding of those whose rural access roads were not constructed , explaining that projects can’t be built at the same time but rather in phases. He said his re-election will afford him the opportunity to execute more projects to those areas that had none; “My coming here is not to campaign but to show you my report card , because you all know me and I am confident of your vote.“I have started working in your communities, other candidates without achievements will come to induce you with money and food items in order to deceive you but ensure you vote for me as your working Senator because my achievements are visible to all”. Isuikwuato LGA Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Royal Okereke, urged the residents yet to collect their PVCs to do so before its closure, noting that their support for Kalu would amount to nothing if they didn’t vote on election day. Notable community stakeholders who engaged Kalu at the various wards include; Ugwuele/Mbaugwu Ward 19 APC Chairman, Emmanuel Ohuegbe; ABSU / Umuanyi Ward 10 APC Chairman and Woman Leader, Kenneth Chukwudi Ezeala and Ms Okereke Ann; Ugwuele / Mbaugwu community youth Leader , Ekwuribe Victor ; Achara Ward 7 Youth Leader, Ukechukwu Ukeje; Isunabo Ward 20 Youth Leader, Amaobi Chimezie amongst others.