By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Several other wards in Isuikwuato Local Government Area have joined their counterparts in declaring solidarity towards the re-election of Senator representing Abia North Senatorial District , Senator Orji Uzor Kalu. According to the electorates their decision to back Kalu who is the Chief Whip of the Senate is hinged on his performance in his first term which their described as “outstanding”, noting that he’s return to the 10th assembly would guarantee the facilitation of more developmental projects to their areas in addition to the ones he already executed in his first term. Kalu had on Thursday commenced a campaign tour of 103 ABSIEC WARDS in his Abia-North Senatorial District to seek re-election bid to the Nigerian Senate. Kalu , the candidate of the All Progressive’s Congress (APC) received the endorsements of his constituents on Friday when he extended his campaign tour to seven wards in Isuikwuato Local Government Area namely; Nulya Amaiyi Obinaohia ward 5, Mgbelu Umunnekwu ward 11, Umunnekwu Agbo ward 6, Eluama ward 4, Obialiugo ward 12, Otamba ward 3 and Umuasua ward. At Nulya Amaiyi Obinaohia ward 5 , scores of residents led by the Ward’s APC Youth Leader, Uche Edom acknowledged Kalu’s impacts impacts in their community stating that though the road leading to their immediate was yet to the constructed they were however optimistic that Kalu’s re-election would guarantee its construction. Similarly, constituents of Umunnekwu ward 11 ratified Kalu’s reelection bid stating that his election into the 10th Senate would give the Lawmaker additional opportunity to consolidate on his infrastructural drive in their community. Speaking at the gathering where Kalu had arrived with his campaign team, Secretary of OUK Movement Umunnekwu , Nnamdi Aguoha noted that judging by Kalu’s exploits in his first term they had seen the difference between the Senate Chief Whip and other past and current Lawmakers. Aguoha declared the community’s resolve to align with Kalu, ” We have seen the difference because you have opened our eyes to what we never knew was possible to be done by lawmakers, with what you have done in just two and a half years at the Senate , we are sure that your return will bring us more development”. Subsequently, at Obialugo Ward 12, Orji Kalu was said to have become a household name as disclosed by the President General of Umuobiala , Chief Peter Onozie which he said is as a result of the fulfilment Kalu’s 2019 promise to construct their road. Peter revealed the community’s consensus to vote overwhelmingly for Kalu; “We are full of appreciation for the construction of this road , to say the least you don’t need to campaign because you’re like a good product that sells itself without advertisement”. “You came here in 2019 and promised to do this road and you didn’t disappoint, we are also pleased that you have disclosed that you’ll extend it from “Amaise” to “Umuokogbo”, we know no other candidate except you and come 25th of February we shall cast our votes massively in your favour”. It was no different at Eluama and Umuasua Wards where the residents applauded Senator Kalu for the projects he attracted to their communities which included the construction of their rural roads, installation of solar street lights, sinking of water boreholes, renovation of schools and health centres, youths and women empowerment, business grants and so many others. Kalu pledged to persevere on actions that will improve the lives of his people and provide opportunities that will engender human capital development for the sustainable growth of Abia North Senatorial District, Abia State and Nigeria in general. He described the numerous projects he attracted and executed as part of measures put in place to absorb the teeming youths of Abia North, Abia State and Nigeria in general and bring economic prosperity to the people. He also promised more development projects in the Senatorial District when reelected in 2023. Kalu sought the understanding of the electorates, he reminded them that prior to his tenure nothing was in place saying that roads and other infrastructures will be extended to each community when he returns.“Development is a continuous process; I will do more for Abia North and Abia State in general when I am reelected”. “I am not here to tell stories, but to interact with you on more things we can do ,you have seen for yourselves what I am capable of doing. Some are talking about the roads not being extended into their Wards, but don’t forget that in 2019 there was nothing in place not until I came. “So be rest assured that the road and other infrastructures will be expanded once I return to the Senate. We are not interested in telling stories, but matching words with action. “Some of your former and existing Lawmakers told you that Parliamentarians don’t build roads but you can see that I have been able to prove them wrong. The Uuru road has already commenced and we are also extending the road from “Amaise to Umuokogba”, at Umuasua same thing will be done from “Amukwu to Amaebo”. Community stakeholders who hosted Kalu and his entourage were; Secretary OUK Movement Obinaohia, Elder Christian Omereonye; Isuamawu APC Ward 4 Chairman, Amb. Nwachinemere Eugene, Isuamawu Women Leader, Mrs. Eberechi Charles ; APC LGA Secretary, Rufus Emeka Ukowu; Obialugo Ward 12 OUK Movement Secretary, Ogbonna Onyekachi ; President General Otampa, Nathaniel Ndukwe and others.