By Muhammad Nur Tijani Kano, – Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State on Saturday unveiled the State Anthem to inculcate patriotism and discipline among the citizens. Ganduje, who spoke at the inauguration of the State Anthem in Kano, reiterated readiness of his administration to preserve historical and cultural heritage of the people of the state. “We will dutifully and jealously protect and preserve our good name and the excellence we have recorded in business and scholarship” he said. The governor applauded his his wife, Hafsat Ganduje, for her ingenuity in kick starting the process that culminated to the development of the State Anthem. “I am glad to see that, my dear wife, initiated the idea of the state Anthem, which has now come to fruition. She did well hence our commendation on her. “We are here to show love for our state, our culture, our costumes, our history and to appreciate our state in general. “Ours is to promote love, deep sense of responsibility and to also show the greatness of our dear state. “As our national Anthem is bringing us together for the service and unity of our motherland, so also this state Anthem will follow the same pattern at the state level,” he said. According to him, the state government will transmit the State Anthem to the State House of Assembly for appropriate legislations. “Whenever we have any public function, after singing the National Anthem, the State Anthem will always follow,” he said, adding the Anthem would showcase how the state excels in commerce, traditional leadership, scholarship, agriculture and hospitality. (NAN) By BUSHRAH YUSUF-BADMUS ILORIN- Kwara State University (KWASU), Malete, has rebranded Ilorin emirate anthem.KWASU’s Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Mustapha Akanbi, while unveiling the anthem at Emir of Ilorin’s palace on Tuesday, said that it depicted the diverse heritage and culture of Ilorin people.He said that the anthem was also an indigenous combination… In "Education" (Reuters) - Health insurer Anthem Inc, which earlier this month reported that it was hit by a massive cyberbreach, said on Tuesday that 8.8 million to 18.8 million people who were not its customers could be victims in the attack. Anthem, the country's second-largest health insurer, is part of a… In "News" By Douglas Okoro Abakaliki -  Mild drama occurred on Thursday in Ebonyi State House of Assembly when a Caretaker Committee Chairman designate, Mr Henry Eze, failed seven times to recite the National Anthem and pledge. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the incident occurred during the screening of… In "News"