By Ibironke AriyoAbuja, – The FCT Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has unveiled operational and public enlightenment campaign strategies to achieve reduction in Road Traffic Crashes (RTCs) in 2023. The Sector Commander, FCT command, Mr Oga Ochi, made the disclosure in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Tuesday. He said that the corps had designed numerous measures in the area of re-aligned patrols, public advocacy, strict enforcement to traffic regulations and increased response to road crashes. The commander said that there would be enhanced public enlightenment, patrols, rescue services and enforcement of traffic rules and regulations during the year to reduce crashes. Ochi said that the objective was to overcome the challenges faced in previous years and forestall further RTCs in the territory. ”We noticed that in the FCT, we need to sustain robust enforcement and that is coming on board with mobile court. ”Towards the end of last year, we engaged the judiciary and that has paid off for us in the city centre and in the whole of FCT. “There will be continued sitting of mobile courts as we embark on massive enforcement. “Every recalcitrant offender will be sent to the mobile court, justice will be dispensed at the mobile court and appropriate actions taken,” he said. The commander believed that this would reduce traffic offences including driving against traffic, blocking of highway by taxi cabs and others. “We are focusing on these critical offences to ensure that people comply with traffic regulations in the FCT,” he said. Ochi further said that in 2022, although the corps was able to reduce RTCs, the fatality was high. “In other words, we need to address the problem of the number of people that die should there be an accident. “Reducing the number of people that die in crashes is to ensure that our response time to RTCs is increased. “The number of minutes it takes us to arrive at the accident scene must be reduced, we must get to accident scenes early enough. “We are therefore putting in place measures to ensure that our ambulances and response teams get to accident scenes early,” he said. Ochi added that the corps would work in collaboration with all stakeholders to ensure accident-free highways in the FCT in 2023.(NAN)