By Kelechi Ogunleye Abuja, – The remains of seven personnel of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), ambushed and killed by bandits has been laid to rest in Kaduna State.This is contained in a statement by NSCDC Director Public Relations, Mr Olusola Odumosu, on Sunday in Abuja.Odumosu recalled that the operatives were slain in Birnin Gwari community on Jan. 9, while on routine duty of protecting a mining site in Birnin Gwari LGA of Kaduna State.He said that the corpses were handed over to families and loved ones of the deceased at the NSCDC Kaduna Command after a brief interment ceremony. Dr Ahmed Audi, Commandant General (CG) of the Corps, bided the officers and men goodbye when he paid his last respect at the lying-in-state ceremony, held on Saturday.Represented by Mr Idris Adah, Commandant, Kaduna Command, the CG praised the efforts of the gallant officers who lost their lives in defence of the country and described them as “Heroes, never to be forgotten.”“They died in active service, they fought a good fight with the last drop of blood in their veins to safeguard the country. Although the loss is painful and the tears are much, but God knows best. “We cannot question God; therefore, let us live right, love, be in peace and harmony with our fellow men because one day, all of us will give account to God,” he said.The CG assured families and next of kins of the deceased of timely dispatch of benefits accruable to them.He thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for consoling and remembering the Corps at its time of grief.According to Audi: “Mr President’s condolence message motivated us greatly, it renewed our strength and rekindled our hope that we are not alone.“This means a lot to us as a service and we are grateful for the support we are getting from the presidency and we feel proud serving the nation.”The CG said that the Corps would not be deterred by the unfortunate incident, rather, it will spur the organisation into more aggressive action against the people’s common enemy. (NAN) The Commandant, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) Enugu State, Mr Aloysius Obiorah, has commiserated with the Commandant-General (C-G) of NSCDC, Dr Ahmed Abubakar, over tragic killing of seven of its personnel. Obiorah also condoled with Commandant and staff of NSCDC Kaduna State, over the unfortunate ambush and killing… In "News" By KELECHI OGUNLEYE ABUJA- The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has confirmed that  seven of its personnel alongside five other persons were ambushed and killed at Kuriga mining site, Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State.The NSCDC Director of Public Relations, Mr Olusola Odumosu told the News Agency… In "Metro" By Mohammad Tijjani Kaduna   -  The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Kaduna State Command, said it would collaborate with other security agencies and the state Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development to rid the state of destitutes. A statement issued by the Public Relations officer of… In "News"