By ISHAQ ZAKI GUSAU- The Zamfara Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) on Monday donated 370 bags of corn flour and N500,000 to the female Ulamas Association in the state. This is contained in a statement issued in Gusau by the APC Publicity Secretary, Malam Yusuf Idris. Idris said the donation was announced by the Zamfara PCC Coordinator, Sen. Kabiru Marafa, at a one-day seminar organised by the association, in collaboration with the State Zakkat and Endowment Board. The theme of the event was: “Islam and Politics,” A tool for NationalDevelopment.” Idris said: “Marafa, who served as the Special Guest at the seminar charged Islamic Scholars to educate people especially Muslims on the need to elect credible leaders. “Those were the type of lraders that will ensure national development according to the teachings of Islam where all people live in harmony.” According to him, the state PCC Coordinator was represented at the event by the APC Gusau 2 State Assembly Candidate, Malam Aminu Jelani. Marafa said the APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his running mate, Sen. Kashim Shettima made up a well balanced tean that would guarantee freedom of religion and worship to all beliefs across the country. According to him, those against the ticket are hypocrites who are only bent to distarblalise the political arrangement of power shift from one region to another. Marafa charged Islamic scholars in the country to intensify efforts in preaching peace, unity and justice that would lead to the complete return of peace in the country. He described females in Da’awa as one of the Islamic tools that would mobilise and educate the electorate in the forthcoming elections. Marafa added that this would lead to the enshrinement of credible leaders like Tinubu and Shattima, as such  unify the country politically, economically and socially. He also commended Gov. Bello Matawalle for his constant support and encouragement to all Islamic activities in the state. Marafa thanked the organisers for inviting him to such a very important and educative seminar that had direct bearing on mankind in the political arena. During the event, various lectures were presented by some renowned Islamic scholars in the state like Sheikh Ahmad Kanoma, Sheikh Abubakar Sodangi and Sheikh Aliyu Jangebe, among others. (NAN)