By AYINDE OLAIDE BAUCHI- President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday said that he has made a promise to serve Nigeria and Nigerians to the best of his ability. Buhari said this when he paid homage to the Emir of Bauchi, Alhaji Rilwanu Adamu, as part of the APC Presidential Campaign rally in Bauchi. “In 2003 and 2012, I visited all the 774 local government areas in this country, and in 2019 when I was contesting for the second term, I visited all the states. “So, there, I made the promise and the pledge that I will serve Nigeria and Nigerians to the best of my ability,” he said. The President, who also appreciated the Emir for the warm reception, lauded Gov. Bala Mohammed over execution of viable projects in the state. Responding, Adamu thanked the president for the visit, and urged politicians to play politics without bitterness. While commending the governor for ensuring a level playing ground for all political parties in the state, the royal father prayed and wished the president a safe trip. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the President was accompanied in the visit by the APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan, and the Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila. Others were the APC presidential candidate and his running mate, Bola Tinubu and Kashim Shettima, among others. (NAN) By AHMED KAIGAMA BAUCHI- Bauchi metropolis was agog on Monday as President Muhammadu Buhari and Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), are expected to arrive in the town to flag off party campaign. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that adequate security measures… In "Politics" Bauchi has named the Sabon Kaura to Miri road after former President Goodluck Jonathan. Emir of Bauchi Dr. Rilwanu Adamu and members of Bauchi Emirates Council also conferred on him the title of Jigon Bauchi during his visit. Jonathan took to his verified Facebook page on Tuesday to share the… In "News" •Hanan Buhari with Bauchi State First Lady, Dr. Aisha Bala Mohammed and other officials Hanan Buhari, the youngest daughter of President Muhammadu Buhari, on Thursday visited Bauchi on a presidential jet to attend a special durbar ceremony organised in her honour by the Emir of Bauchi, Rilwanu Adamu, at his… In "News"