By Sandra UmehLagos, – A 35-year-old man, Obinna Uzoma has appeared before an Ojo Magistrates’ Court for allegedly damaging metals to the water reservoir at the Trade Fair Complex in Ojo, Lagos. The defendant is standing trial on a three-count charge bordering on conspiracy, malicious damage and stealing. Uzoma pleaded not guilty to the charges The Prosecutor, Dr Simon Uche told the court that the defendant committed the offence on Jan. 14, at the Trade Fair Complex in Ojo. Uche alleged that the defendant and others currently at large, conspired to damage some iron pipes to the water reservoir, property of the Federal Government. He said that the defendant and his accomplices stole the iron pipes, but luck was against the defendant as he was apprehended, while others escaped. He said that the offences contravened the provisions of Sections 287, 339 and 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The Magistrate, Mr L. J. K. Layeni granted the defendant bail in the sum of N300,000 with two sureties in like sum. Layeni adjourned the case until Feb. 22 for trial. (NAN) By Sandra UmehLagos - The Police on Monday charged an 18-year-old Man, Monday Ejoor, before an Ojo Magistrates’ Court in Lagos for allegedly stealing of a bag containing jewellery and items worth N80,000 Ejoor is standing trial on three-count charge of conspiracy, stealing and causing breach of the peace. The… In "Metro" By Funmilola Gboteku Lagos - A 37-year-old trader, who allegedly obtained N15 million from a businessman on the pretext of developing a building for him, on Monday appeared before an Apapa Chief Magistrates‘ Court, Lagos. Anthony Uzor, who resides at Ojo area of Lagos, is facing a two-count charge of… In "Metro" By Sandra Umeh Lagos, - A 54-year-old man, Samuel Iniatimi was on Friday docked before an Ojo Magistrates’ Court,  Lagos for allegedly stealing the sum of N3.27 million entrusted in his care. The defendant is standing trial on a three-count charge bordering on stealing, causing a breach of peace and… In "Metro"