The Hydroelectric Power Producing Areas Development Commission (HYPPADEC) has warned its members of staff against corruption, indolence and insubordination that would negatively affect its performance. Alhaji Abubakar Sadiq-Yelma, HYPPADEC Managing Director stated this while declaring open a two – day workshop on Strict Compliance with Asset Declaration and Code of Conduct, organised for its 37 members of staff in Kogi. Represented by Mr Bala Mohammed, Assistant Director of the commission, Sadiq-Yelma said: “You should be aware that this administration is unprecedentedly committed to fighting corruption and improving accountability in the Nigerian civil and public service. “Again, don’t be deceived by the false impression that assets declaration is limited to only top-tier public officers.It is for all cadre of public officers within the Federal, state and Local Government Area because transparency and accountability are the life-support of democracy. “Public officers are expected to declare their assets immediately after taking office and thereafter, at the end of every four years. They are equally required to do so at the end of term in office. “It is the mandate of HYPPADEC to conceive, plan and implement projects and programmes to prevent and tame ecological and environmental hazards, and to ensure the development in Nigeria’s power producing areas. “This cannot be achieved without an honest, committed and ethically upright workforce, therefore you should eschew corruption, indolence and insubordination that can negatively affect our activities and progress as a commission.” Earlier in her welcome address, Coordinator of HYPPADEC in Kogi, Joan Ogwuche, charged the participants to be diligent enough to learn from the training to build up their capacity to serve the nation well. Also speaking, Mr Koyonda Edward, Assistant Director, Evaluation and Advisory Service, Code of Conduct Bureau, Abuja, described the workshop as a laudable initiative. Edward tasked the participants to comply with the ethics and best practices of civil and public service. He said that compliance with the ethics and best practices would help them to know how to handle ethical issues in the office. (NAN)