By ISAIAH EKA UYO- The Akwa Ibom chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC), has debunked the purported expulsion of Sen Ita Enang from the party. Mr Umoh Ekop, the Ibiono Ibom Local Government Area (LGA) APC Chairman, said this in a news conference in Uyo on Thursday. Ekop said that those behind the purported letter of expulsion were alien to APC. He said that at no time did Enang committed any offence that should warrant an expulsion from the party. “Ordinarily, we will have allowed the said publication, knowing that it is meaningless and does not have the weight capacity of distracting the party nor the Distinguish Sen. Ita Enang, who is the backbone of the part in the LGA and state levels. “For the sake of the public, who may be misled to believe this lies from the pit of hell, we want to put the record straight, that Enang is still a member of APC, Eastern Ward 2, Ibiono Ibom LGA of Akwa Ibom. “We have not receive any news or petition from the Ward Chairman of Eastern Ward 2 against him at any time. “Enang is the only light and voice of the party at the local level as well as the known voice in Akwa Ibom that has always been speaking for the party,” Ekop said. He added that the former presidential aide has been a very dedicated, committed, and sincere member of APC who has been querying the opposition on the issues of transparency with public funds in the state. The chapter chairman said that the purported expulsion was the handiwork of mischief makers and also an insult to the entire Ibiono Ibom LGA. He urged those behind the publication to tender an unreserved apology to Enang within 72 hours. Also, Enang had in a statement earlier, described the expulsion as fake news and that should be discarded. He urged party leaders and teeming members and all Akwa Ibom people to ignore it and continue working with him for the interest of the party. “I have just seen one fake news on the social media on my leadership and status in Akwa Ibom APC. “I urge all leaders and teeming members of our great party to please ignore same and continue working with me and all other party leaders and members of the party for the success of the Party in all the elections. “I urge our members to please cooperate and work together to receive our President, His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari and our Presidential Candidate, His Excellency,  Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Sen. Kashim Shettima and all our Party National Leaders in the State APC Presidential Rally coming up on Jan. 30 at Uyo. “We should please focus on mobilising for the rally and not be distracted by irrelevancies,” he said. (NAN)