By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 25, 2023 general elections, Atiku Abubakar has reminded that as the head of the economic management team during the two terms administration of President Olusegun Obasanjo, that he was instrumental in designing a private sector revival strategy and advocated for the opening of the economy for private sector investments in several sectors. The former Vice President stated this at Summit House in Lagos for an engagement with the Nigerian Economic Summit Group. The tweets read: As head of the economic management team while I was Vice President, I was instrumental in designing a private sector revival strategy and advocated for the opening of the economy for private sector investments in several sectors. And we made tremendous progress. I’m sure you still remember the good old days of rapid economic growth with stable interest and exchange rates, low inflation, low unemployment rates and low poverty headcount. We paid off nearly all of our foreign debt which was crippling the country. It will be dangerous for Nigeria to relinquish their future to a greenhorn or the national leader of the same party that brought us to this very sorry situation. No one should downplay the enormity of the task ahead. I have a good knowledge of the challenges facing Nigeria. I will come prepared and experienced. We will review government procurement processes to ensure value for money. We will review government procurement processes to ensure value for money. #AtikuAtNESG Our government will tackle the deficit in infrastructure financing and fast-track infrastructure development in the country. #AtikuAtNESG We will create a strong partnership with the private sector to create jobs, grow our infrastructure and fight poverty. We will support the private sector to drive growth. We have done it before, and you know we can do it again. Capital has taken a flight alongside policy incoherence which continues to cause an impediment to economic growth. The failure of the APC-led government is staring every Nigerian in the face. A warm handshake with the private sector is needed for any policy or economic agenda to succeed. If we make appropriate economic opportunity for our people, it will have a significant impact on the socioeconomic lives of our people. I’m at The Summit House in Lagos for an engagement with the Nigerian Economic Summit Group. -AA