OWERRI – An unnamed female student has set the Internet on fire after she gloated on TikTok that she had graduated from the Federal Polytechnic, Nekede, Imo State with the help of God and her private parts. The management of the Federal Polytechnic Nekede, in a swift response on Monday, stated that it has begun investigations into the identity of a female student. The lady could be heard in the video saying, ” Omo today is the final day men…Nekede bye bye, tnis Nekede stress ends today, Nekede stress ends today. I am now a graduate. Finally, I am now a graduate of Federal Polytechnic Owerri. It can only be God…it can only be God and my pussy.” In a statement issued by the polytechnic’s registrar, Eucharia Anuna on Monday, the institution condemned the video, saying it was blasphemous and antithetical that the student peddled the name of God in her “deleterious act.” The statement read: “This is to inform the general public that the Management of Federal Polytechnic Nekede has begun full investigations into the identity of the student who gloated on Tiktok about how she graduated with the help of God and her private organ. It is even most blasphemous and antithetical that the said student peddled the name of the Almighty in her deleterious act. “Management considers the action of the student most unacceptable and preposterous. The Federal Polytechnic Nekede prides itself as an institution with high academic and moral standards. Both staff and students are quite aware of the consequences of any misconduct. In an unprecedented move, Management through the various disciplinary committees had released hot lines through which students can report any act of exploitation or corruption. These committees are diligent in ensuring that any staff or student found culpable is meted with appropriate punishment. “The despicable post of this supposed student does not therefore represent the standard of our institution. The Rector of the institution, being a clergyman, has been very committed and consistent in instilling discipline in our students through seminars, Solemn Assemblies, sensitisation outreaches and publications. “When our investigations are over, we shall make our findings and pronouncements public. It is in our purview to ensure that only students found worthy in learning and character are certified. This is a commitment to which we shall remain consistently resolute.”