Nigeria has a long and successful history in the African Cup of Nations (AFCON) soccer tournament. The team has participated in the competition a total of 19 times and has won the tournament a record three times. Nigeria first qualified for the AFCON in 1963, but it was not until 1980 that the team won its first title. The Nigerian team quite present on Bettors , led by striker Segun Odegbami, beat Algeria in the final to win the trophy. Nigeria has won the AFCON again in 1994 and 2013, the latter under coach Stephen Keshi. In addition to their three African championship titles, Nigeria has also reached the final of the tournament on several occasions, including 2000, 2004 and 2010. The team has also reached the AFCON semi-finals on several occasions, including 1972, 1988 and 2020. Overall, Nigeria has a strong and proud history in the AFCON and is always a formidable opponent in the competition. The team has a dedicated group of players who are always looking to bring home the trophy and make their mark on the international stage. It is difficult to predict the chances of Nigeria in the next Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), which is scheduled to take place in Ivory Coast in 2023. There are many factors that can influence a team’s performance in the AFCON, including the strength of the squad, the form of individual players, and the tactics employed by the coach. That being said, Nigeria is a traditionally strong team in the AFCON and has a good track record in the competition, having won the tournament a record three times. The team also has a talented group of players, many of whom have experience playing at the highest levels of club and international football. Overall, it is impossible to say with certainty what Nigeria’s chances will be in the next AFCON, but the team will no doubt be among the contenders for the title. The team’s success in the tournament will depend on a variety of factors, and it will be up to the players and coaches to come together and perform to the best of their ability. So, we can say that Nigeria has good chances to perform well in the AFCON tournament in Ivory Coast in 2023. Nigeria’s national soccer team is set to compete in the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations, which is scheduled to take place in 2024. The team, also known as the “Super Eagles,” has a long and successful history in the African Cup of Nations, having won the tournament three times (in 1980, 1994 and 2013) and finished as runners-up on four other occasions. The Super Eagles have always been one of the best teams in Africa, and they will undoubtedly be among the favorites to win the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations. They have a talented group of players, many of whom play their club soccer in the top European leagues.  It will be interesting to see how they fare at the 2023 tournament, and if they can add another title to their impressive record. Here are the top three scorers of Nigeria at the African Cup of Nations :, Rashidi Yekini – He scored a total of 37 goals for Nigeria and was the country’s all-time leading scorer until his record was broken in 2018. Yekini played for Nigeria at three AFCON tournaments and scored a total of 7 goals, including a hat-trick in the 1994 tournament. Segun Odegbami – He scored 23 goals for Nigeria and played at three AFCON tournaments. Odegbami was the top scorer at the 1980 AFCON, where he scored a total of 6 goals. Emmanuel Amuneke – He scored 21 goals for Nigeria and played at two AFCON tournaments. Amuneke was a member of the Nigerian team that won the AFCON in 1994, where he scored 2 goals.  In "News" ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - President Goodluck Jonathan on Wednesday gave a matching order to the Coordinating Minister of the Economy and Minister of Finance, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala; the Governor Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Emiefule and the Nigeria National Petroleum Cooperation (NNPC) to ensure an end to the fuel… In "News" Dhaka   -      The Bangladeshi government on Monday approved the draft of a law banning child labour in the country with provisions for stringent punishment to offenders. The draft was approved at a cabinet meeting with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina in the chair, Cabinet Secretary Mohammad Alam, said. The proposed “Bangladesh… In "Foreign"