By ALABA-OLUSOLA OKE ONDO- Gov. Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State says the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, will win the February election with wide margin. Akeredolu, who said that APC was lucky to have a personality like Tinubu, stated this at the Ondo Central Senatorial District campaign rally of the party in Ondo town on Monday. The governor described Tinubu as “a reliable and competent person”, adding that he was the only candidate that could ensure the desired positive change and development in the country. The rally was in continuation of the Senatorial Rally of the party which was flagged-off on Jan. 23 in Okitipupa, Ondo South Senatorial District. ”Tinubu will be elected as the president. Should we be looking for someone else in Sokoto or Adamawa when we have a reliable and competent person amongst us? “We are lucky to have Asiwaju Tinubu in APC. He will win,” Akeredolu said. The governor also enjoined the people to vote for the senatorial candidate of the party, Mr Niyi Adegbonmire. He said Adegbonmire had the capacity and competence to bring quality representation to the people of the district. Akeredolu equally extended his support for the three House of Representatives candidates in the district. The candidates are; Prince Derin Adesida, Akure South/North Federal Constituency; Mr Tajudeeen Adefisoye, Idanre/ Ifedore Federal Constituency; and Dr Abiola Makinde, Ondo West/East Federal Constituency. He appealed to the people to vote for all the candidates of the party for the state House of Assembly in the Central Senatorial District. The party candidates are; Mr Simeon Toluwani Borokini, Akure South Constituency 1; Mr Stephen Abitogun, Akure South Constituency 2; Mr Komolafe Temitope, Ifedore Constituency; Princess Tosin Ogunlowo, Idanre Constituency. Others are; Mr Oladiji Olamide, Ondo East Constituency; Otunba Moyinolorun Ogunwumiju, Ondo West Constituency 1; Mr Oladapo Biola, Ondo West Constituency 2; and Mr Ologede Kolawole, Akure North Constituency. The governor later presented the party’s flag to all the candidates. Earlier, the Chairman of the party in the state, Mr Ade Adetimehin, expressed delight at the large turn-out of party faithful from the senatorial district. “Eight days ago, we were at the South to establish the fact that APC is the most popular in the South and we have confirmed it today that APC is the most popular in the Central. “By the grace of God, next week Monday we will be at the North, because our leader is from the North. After that we will go from house to house to canvass for votes. “Keep your PVC, it is your weapon. From top to bottom, it must be APC. It is time for total loyalty. We have a governor that we can be proud of. “He’s a committed leader. He’s loyal to his words. If you look at his achievements, he’s a role model. On security in the South-West, he stood his ground and today we can sleep with our two eyes closed. “We are campaigning on Gov. Akeredolu’s achievement. In terms of performance, nobody has performed better than Akeredolu since the creation of this state in terms of road infrastructure, school, health and so on,” Adetimehin stated. The chairman added that after campaign across the three senatorial districts in the state, the party leaders would begin local government area to local government area, ward to ward and unit to unit. According to him, they will campaign from house to house, door to door and hamlet to hamlet to record landslide victory for the APC in the general election. No fewer than 350 members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) led by Adedayo Sabali from Ijare Ward in Ifedore Local Government joined the APC at the rally. Other leaders of APC that spoke at the rally expressed their readiness to work for overwhelming victory of the party, even as they urged all eligible voters to get their PVCs to enable them exercise their franchise in the general election. (NAN) By ALABA-OLUSOLA OKE Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu AKURE- A Chieftaiin of the All Progresives Congress (APC), Mr Femi Adekanmbi, says that Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State is the most qualified governor from the South-West to head the Bola Tinubu/Kashim Shettima Presidential Campaign Committee in the zone.Adekabmbi, a former Commissioner for… In "Politics" By ALABA-OLUSOLA OKE Senator Bola Tinubu OWO(ONDO STATE)-A National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Sen. Bola Tinubu, has donated N75 million to the victims of Sunday’s gunmen attack on St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo.Tinubu, a presidential aspirant on the platform of APC, made the donation on Monday in… In "News" By ADEREMI BAMGBOSE Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu ONDO- Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State on Monday at Okitipupa appealed to voters to vote for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and for all candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the forthcoming elections. He charged the people of Ondo South senatorial district… In "Politics"