By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has debunked claims of an alleged plot to rig the 2023 elections. The viral story had claimed that the former president was allegedly planning to collude with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to rig the exercise. But Kehinde Akinyemi, the Special Assistant on Media to Obasanjo, said “the viral trending story on the alleged plan by the former President to collude with the electoral body in the Presidential election of February 25 is completely false. “Also, apart from the letters dated January 1, 2023, respectively, one, that which was addressed to the Nigerian youth and the other to Prof. Toyin Falola on his 70th birthday, there has been no other public or private letter written to anybody by the former President,” Akinyemi said in a statement Thursday. “The reading public is for the umpteenth time, reminded that only statements duly signed by His Excellency, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, or by his Media Assistant, Kehinde Akinyemi are to be allowed into the media space.” READ THE FULL STATEMENT BELOW: Rigging claims, letter to Britain: Obasanjo not responsible – Aide The former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo is not responsible for the viral stories on some discredited platforms on the forthcoming general elections in Nigeria. The Special Assistant on Media to the former President, Kehinde Akinyemi, made this known in a statement issued on Thursday. Akinyemi emphasised that the viral trending story on the alleged plan by the former President to collude with electoral body in the Presidential election of February 25 is completely false. Also, apart from the letters dated January 1, 2023 respectively, one, that which was addressed to the Nigerian youth and the other to Prof. Toyin Falola on his 70th birthday, there has been no other public or private letter written to anybody by the former President. The reading public is for the umpteenth time, reminded that only a statement duly signed by His Excellency, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo or by his Media Assistant, Kehinde Akinyemi are to be allowed into the media space. If need be, necessary checks can be made to confirm the authenticity of such documents before publication to avoid any embarrassment. Kehinde AkinyemiSpecial Assistant on MediaJanuary 12, 2023