BY ISAIAH EKA AKWA IBOM STATE- A former Presidential Aide, Sen. Ita Enang, on Sunday said the  All Progressives Congress (APC) was prepared to receive Sen. Bola Tinubu and Sen. Kashim Shettima in Akwa Ibom for their Presidential Rally. Enang, who stated this while meeting with all the wards in Ibiono Ibom Local Government Area of the state, said the rally would hold on Jan. 12. He said the meeting with all the wards and units in the Ibiono Ibom LGA was part of the preparations to put the party together for a massive turnout for the presidential rally. Enang,  the immediate past senior special assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Niger Delta Affairs added that the campaign materials were also ready. This, according to him  includes: t-shirts, caps, handbills, and other wears carrying the inscriptions of Tinubu/Shettima and have been distributed. “I am so impressed and excited at the level of reception for APC in Ibiono Ibom; wards and units, because for a while there was a feeling that APC was in disarray. “Yes, there was that feeling but we have been able to calm the people and assure them that we are together. “We have distributed our campaign materials, distributed the caps carrying an inscription of Tinubu, Shettima, and Sen. Ita Enang, we have distributed the t-shirts and wears. “We have enlightened the people that when they go to vote, they should vote for APC. “We have appraised them that all things being equal,  the party’s presidential kick-off will be on Jan. 12 and further information will be given as to that effect. “We have also mobilise the people to come out and received our presidential candidates and at that venue, we will also know other candidates for other offices,” Enang said. Enang, who is also the Director of Parliamentarians Directorate of the Presidential Campaign Council in Akwa Ibom added that he had unified both aspirants and candidates, who contested for the house of assembly and house of representatives. He urged other party faithful in the state to step up mobilisation for the presidential campaign rally to ensure victory for the APC. (NAN) Isaiah Eka Ibiono Ibom (Akwa  Ibom), - A former Presidential Aide, Sen. Ita Enang, on Sunday said the  All Progressives Congress (APC) was prepared to receive Sen. Bola Tinubu and Sen. Kashim Shettima in Akwa Ibom for their Presidential Rally. Enang, who stated this while meeting with all the wards… In "News" Sunday Bassey Ibiono Ibom (Akwa Ibom) - Sen. Ita Enang, the Senior Special Adviser to President Buhari on National Assembly Matters has denied allegations that he hijacked ballot boxes in Akwa Ibom. He was reacting to allegations by the electorate at Unit 12, ward 2, Ididep in Ibiono Ibom Local… In "Politics" By Isaiah Eka   Uyo -   The Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari, on National Assembly Senate Matters Sen. Ita Enang, has said that the All Progressives Congress (APC) would use Akwa Ibom to launch the party to the South-South. Enang said this during the solidarity rally in… In "Politics"