OWERRI – The female graduate of the Federal Polytechnic Nekede, Owerri, Imo State, who claimed in a viral Tiktok video that she graduated from the school with the help of God and her private part, has made a clarification. In a memo addressed to the institution’s Rector and signed on her behalf by her solicitor, Ikechukwu Nwaopara on Tuesday, the lady identified as Okereafor Ogechi Sharon, said she meant to say ‘popsi’ (father). Sundiata Post recalls that the polytechnic’s management had on Monday announced that it had commenced investigation into the matter. It summoned the lady to appear before a disciplinary committee investigating the viral video. The memo reads in full: The RectorFederal Polytechnic NekedeOwerri IMO State. Re: THE CASE OF OKOROAFOR OGECHI SHARON(THE GRADUATING STUDENT OF FED POLYNEK IN A VIRAL VIDEO) We are solicitors to OKEREAFOR OGECHI SHARON (our Client under our Pro Bono Free Legal Services) on whose behalf we write this memo to you. We are aware that she will be facing the school disciplinary panel this morning and we wish to use this medium to express our confidence that the panel will carry out their duties in compliance with the principles of Fair hearing, Good conscience and Natural Justice devoid of harassment, intimidation and threats. We have met and discussed with our Client and evidence before us shows that she has no intention to defame the character, standard, and integrity of the institution. In her words what happened in the said viral video was a slip of tongue as a result of her uncontrollable ecstacy over her graduation. Her intended words were “God and Popsy”(Not P*ssy) in appreciation of the Almighty God and her Dad. It is clear therefore, that she had no intention whatsoever to use such a “foul word” in the said viral video to cajole or blackmail the institution as no lecturer or name of the institution was mentioned or referred to in the said viral video. Our lawyers are already on ground at the institution now to follow up the proceedings at the panel against any form of intimidation or harassment. The integrity and standard of the said institution is not in doubt especially since my Senior brother, Rev. (Dr) Arimanwa took over as the Rector. Indeed, Justice is for all parties. Kindly accept the assurances of our warmest regards. Barr Ikechukwu NwaoparaSolicitor & Advocate of the Supreme Court of Nigeria