BAUCHI – The presidential campaign rally of the All Progressives Congress in Bauchi State ended abruptly over a faulty sound system on Monday. The rally, which was ongoing at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium, Bauchi, on Monday, ended abruptly when the light went off and could not be restored. The light went off shortly after the National Chairman of the APC, Abdullahi Adamu, mounted the podium and began delivering his speech. Buhari, who was present at the rally, had to leave immediately with his entourage. Buhari had arrived Bauchi to lead the All Progressives Congress’ presidential and governorship campaign rally. The aircraft conveying the President touched down at the Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa airport, Bauchi around 10:20 am. He was received by the Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, who is the Peoples Democratic Party’s candidate and his opponent in the March 11 governorship election, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar. Others at the airport to receive the President were the APC party chairman, Abdullahi Adamu; Director-General of the APC Presidential Campaign Council and governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong; Senate President Ahmad Lawan; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; former Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Abdulrahman Danbazzau; Andy Ubah, Governors of Borno, Kebbi and Yobe states, Babagana Zulum, Abubakar Bagudu and Mai Mala Buni, respectively. Buhari had proceeded to the Palace of the Emir of Bauchi, Dr Rilwanu Adamu, for a courtesy visit and thereafter headed to the Sir Tafawa Balewa Stadium, venue for campaign rally. Buhari was to officially present the APC candidates to the Bauchi electorate at the rally, and to afterwards depart for Lagos, where he is scheduled to begin his two-day working visit.(The PUNCH) By AHMED KAIGAMA BAUCHI- Bauchi metropolis was agog on Monday as President Muhammadu Buhari and Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), are expected to arrive in the town to flag off party campaign. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that adequate security measures… In "Politics" By Emmanuel Oloniruha Abuja - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), says it has resumed the collation of the Bauchi Governorship Election results, for the Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area(LGA) which was earlier suspended. INEC on Monday, in a notice posted on its twitter hand media handle, @inecnigeria, said that… In "Politics" By Ayinde Abdulsaheed Olaide Tafawa Balewa    -    A Coalition of political organizations in Dass, Tafawa Balewa and Bogoro Federal Constituency of Bauchi State under the auspices of the ‘Dass, Tafawa Balewa and Bogoro’ youths and elders forum (DATABO) has thrown its unwavering support for President Buhari come 2019 and passed… In "News"