…Gets NCPC Approval, Institutionalizes Support for Pilgrimage By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, on Friday 20th January, 2023, met with the ten (10) Christian Police Officers who have been nominated for the 2023 pilgrimage in Jerusalem, Israel. The pilgrimage which is the first of its kind has been initiated and financed by the IGP in collaboration with some well-meaning Nigerians to encourage Police Officers to be steadfast and uphold the lofty tenets of their faith. CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, the Force Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, Abuja disclosed this in a statement he signed and made available to Sundiata Post. “The IGP has also sought and gotten the approval of the Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission (NCPC) to ensure that this becomes a routine activity. He has equally institutionalized the system to ensure that subsequent administrations tow the same path.” “The Inspector-General of Police urged the officers to be good ambassadors of the Nigeria Police Force and the country during the period of the pilgrimage. “He equally tasked them to spend the period in sober reflection which would ultimately impact on their policing duty,” the statement added. By Abujah Racheal Abuja -  Rev. Tor Uja, Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christian Pilgrims Commission (NCPC), has said that 2,400 Christians are going for 2018 Easter pilgrimage to Israel on June 27. Uja made the disclosure during a strategic meeting at NCPC headquarters with States Pilgrimage Leaders, comprising of Chairmen and… In "News" Abuja  -  Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara has called on government to support and sustain agencies responsible for pilgrimages to the Holy Land. Dogara said this in a statement signed by Mr Celestine Ogugua, Head of Media, Nigerian Christian Pilgrims Commission (NCPC) and made available to newsmen on Monday… In "News" Ibadan- The Oyo State Pilgrims Welfare Board, Christian Wing, on Monday in Ibadan said the depreciating value of the Naira could adversely affect the 2015 pilgrimage to Jerusalem. Mr David Ishola, Secretary to the board, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the exchange rate of the Naira to… In "Business"