By SAM JONES YENAGOA (Sundiata Post) – Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has promised to unify Nigeria as well as address the economy and security if elected president this year. Atiku was in Yenagoa on Monday and was received by a large crowd at the Ox-Bow Lake Pavilion where party faithful and supporters added colour to the occasion by performing a boat regatta. He said Bayelsa has voted PDP since 1999, produced a president, governors and the state and that the party are the same. Atiku restated his commitment to restructuring and resource control, appealing for support and understanding, saying he would give the people a sense of belonging. He lamented that the nation has never been so divided, assuring he will address the education system. Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, PDP vice presidential candidate and Delta State governor, urged the Niger Delta to deliver its five million votes, stressing that this is the best opportunity to remedy the situation in Nigeria. “With Atiku and I, we will be able to change the story in Nigeria. Atiku is the only candidate who has remained committed to restructuring,” he stated. National chairman of the party, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, received 1,263 decampees from the All Progressives Congress (APC) led former member of the House of Representatives, Warman Ogoriba, who said “We went astray.” Chairman of the Presidential Campaign Council and Akwa Ibom State governor, Governor Udom Emmanuel, assured Atiku would remove fuel queues and address environmental degradation, amongst other things. Bayelsa State governor Senator Douye Diri described Atiku as the only candidate who has keyed into resource control and restructuring, which the Ijaw people want. Diri said PDP will not fail again as all the women and youths are behind the Atiku/Okowa ticket while pointing out that the introduction of BIVAS will address the issue of violence which characterised past elections in the state. Sokoto State governor and director general of the campaign, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal, said Atiku is aware of the problem of insecurity in the north while Okowa is conversant with the challenges of the south. PDP state chairman, Bayelsa State, Hon. Solomon Agwanana said the people are aware Nigeria is in a mess and “Our hearts are with the incoming president as he understands the heartbeat of the country.” By Shedrack Frank   Yenagoa    -         A group, The Atiku Domestic Voters Structure (DOVO), has pledged to deliver Bayelsa to the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, during the 2019 general elections. The State coordinator of the group, Mr Endurance Deboh, made the pledge on Friday while meeting with… In "News" By Shedrack Frank Yenagoa - The Atiku Domestic Voters Structure ( DOVO) a support group of PDP’s presidential candidate, Ahaji Atiku Abubakar, has commended the African Democratic Congress( ADC)’s Bayelsa East senatorial candidate for endorsing Atiku. The Bayelsa Coordinator of DOVO, Mr Endurance Deboh, commended Sen.Nimi Barigha-Amange for his display… In "News" Atiku Abubakar and Ifeanyi Okowa By SAM JONES YENAGOA (Sundiata Post) - The main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has inaugurated the Atiku/Okowa Presidential Campaign Council in Bayelsa State at a rally in Yenagoa on Wednesday. The state governor, Senator Douye Diri, inaugurated the campaign council with himself as chairman… In "Politics"