By Abiodun Lawal Ketu (Ogun), – Sen. Solomon Adeola, Chairman, Senate Committee on Finance, has assured indigenes of Ketu in Yewa North local government area of Ogun, that he would complete the abandoned World Bank Assisted Rural Electrification project in the area. The Senator, who is the Ogun West Senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the general election, made the pledge on Sunday in Oja Odan during his ward-to-ward campaign tour of Yewa North council area. Adeola stated that he was aware that the project would serve 57 communities, saying that he would ensure the completion of the project with the sum of N50 million. He expressed shock that a World Bank Assisted Rural Electrification Project that was over 90 per cent completed would be abandoned following the expiration of the global finance body’s financial assistance. “From the narration here, I am willing to see to the completion of the project that will benefit 57 communities in the senatorial district I intends to represent. “I am sure that completion of this project which has been abandoned for years will greatly assist human and economic development of these communities,” the senator stated. Adeola, however, stated that a full briefing should be provided for him on the project and what specifically needed to be done for completion. He added that but for the scanty information available, he would have authorised the release of fund for its completion at the instance. “If indeed only N50 million is required to complete this otherwise laudable project that is partly World Bank financed, then this speaks volume to the kind of representation my people have endured all these years. “The project could easily be completed in one budget cycle through facilitation by an effective representative,” he stated. The senator also released N5 million for the market women at Oja Odan for the completion of a maize storage facility with capacity for 400 bags, donated transformers to be supplied before election to Ohunbe, Oja-Odan, Igan-Alade and Ijoun. Adeola unveiled his programme of empowering 5,000 market men and women with cash grants for which forms are already in circulation. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the senator visited four wards and many communities including Ebute, Oja-Odan, Ohunbe, Igbeme, Tata, Eggua, Igan-Alade, Owode-Ketu and Ijoun. (NAN)