….Urge other officers to emulate her. By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Nigeria Police Force (NPF) has hailed Inspector Justina Rita Omogbai for being exemplary after photos of her tending to pupils went viral. Inspector Justina was recently captured ensuring pupils who cross the road at Sabo Junction in Yaba, Lagos State are properly dressed. The officer who is attached to the traffic unit of the Sabo Divisional Headquarters has now gotten commendations from the NPF for what it described as her “professionalism” and “commitment”. Inspector Justina Rita Omogbai’s gesture, the Police said, aligns with the agency’s values. “The Nigeria Police Force has commended a female Police Officer, Inspector Justina Rita Omogbai, attached to the Traffic Unit of the Sabo Divisional Headquarters in Lagos State, for her commitment and acts of professionalism displayed in the course of her traffic duties and for positively representing the Force amongst the community, particularly to school children crossing the road at her duty post, by taking personal steps to ensure they are properly dressed and safe while heading to and from school,” Force spokesman Muyiwa Adejobi said in a Tuesday statement. “The NPF noted that her gesture aligns with the Community Policing tenets and the concept of ‘Catching Them Young’, as the formative age is very vital to training children to be law-abiding and compliant with regulations; andher singular action brings to their memories the standard practice of Nigeria Police Traffic Officers. “While commending the officer, the Inspector-General of Police charged all officers and men to emulate her good conduct and be shining examples in their respective jurisdictions. “He equally tasked officers to be law-abiding even as they sow the seed of appropriate civic behaviour in the minds and hearts of members of their communities, particularly the young ones, who can serve as evangelists of values and good potentials of the NPF contrary to the present erroneous perception.” By Martha Nuhu Jos  -    A suspect, Stephen Luka, who is standing trial for brutalising his ex-girlfriend and killing her sister, has told a Jos High Court that the police tortured him to obtain his confessional statement. Giving evidence in a trial-within-trial on Tuesday in Jos, Luka rebutted the… In "Metro" Abeokuta  -  Commissioner of Police in Ogun, Abdulmajid Ali, on Monday presented scholarship certificates to 11 pupils of the Police Children School, Abeokuta. He stated that the gesture was in fulfilment of the promise by the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Solomon Arase to the students. He explained that Arase made… In "News" Owerri- Chief Sam Ejelonu, the father of Justina, the first Nigerian nurse, who died of Ebola virus disease, has decried alleged inhuman treatment to his family by his daughter’s employer. Justina, who was employed by the First Consultants Medical Centre, Lagos, died on Aug. 12, following her contact with the… In "Health"