By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former President Goodluck Jonathan; General Overseer, Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye; and human rights advocate Aisha Yesufu are among 14 Nigerians named among the ‘100 Most Reputable Africans’ of 2023. A global reputation firm, Reputation Poll International (RPI), on Monday, released the list which features individuals from diverse sectors, including Governance/Leadership, Entertainment, Human rights/Advocacy, Education, and Business. Sundiata Post recalls that “Reputation Poll is a research-based, global performance-management consulting company,” a statement on the firm’s website reads. “Reputation Poll set to become a Global Brand in reputation ratings focused on creating and executing credible opinion on personalities, organisations and brands across multiple industries.” The recognised Nigerians include Economist and Financial Manager, Arunma Oteh; Director of Economy Trade & Investment, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Bolaji Akinremi; Founder and Chairman of the Coscharis Group, Cosmas Maduka; Executive Vice Chairman and CEO of Credent Capital and Advisory Ltd, Dauda Lawal. The list also named Founder and General Overseer at Living Faith Church Worldwide (LFCW), Bishop David Oyedepo; 21st Olu of Warri, Ogiame Atuwatse III; International Development Professional, Olaniyi Olatunji Nelson; and Senior Pastor, The Dunamis International Gospel Centre, Pastor Paul Enenche. Others are Permanent Representative of Nigeria to the United Nations, Tijjani Muhammad-Bande; Deputy Secretary of the United States Department of the Treasury, Wally Adeyemo; General Overseer of the Deeper Christian Life Ministry (DCLM), WF Kumuyi (Pastor). According to the company, the selection criteria are integrity, visibility, and impact. “During the announcement of the list, Ms. Beldina Auma, the Co-Chairperson of the Review and Audit Committee, as well as the Chair Emeritus of the World Bank Group-IMF African Society, President of SCIP-International, said the organisation is dedicated to recognizing people, groups, and businesses who continually improve lives in Africa and around the world,” the firm said. ABOUT seven prominent Nigerians have added another feather to their caps as the are listed among the 100 Most Reputable Africans in the year 2020. They include Cardinal Francis Arinze, prefect of the Congregation for Divine Worship and the Discipline of the Sacraments from 2002 to 2008, and Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala,… In "News" By Immanuel James Ibe-Anyanwu ABUJA (Sundiata Post) Last night, I watched the CNN documentary of African youth sold into slavery in Libya, one of them a Nigerian boy bought at N146,000. He is one of the usual horde leaving for Europe through Libya or the Sahara Desert, who, along the… In "Social Media Feeds" By Joe Brock LUANDA  - An Angolan journalist who accused generals of human rights abuses in the illicit diamond trade faces libel charges in court on Thursday in a case that is putting the spotlight on a major African oil-producer keen to improve its reputation abroad. Rafael Marques de Morais'… In "Foreign"