Nollywood actress, Ireti Doyle has confirmed her divorce from veteran broadcaster and actor, Patrick Doyle. Ireti and Patrick went their separate ways after 29 years of marriage In a recent interview with media personality, Chude Jideonwo, the actress said she is no longer married to Mr Doyle. “We are officially divorced” she confirmed The 55-year-old went on to say that she had no business being married at that time. “When you’re an adult, it’s not a life and death situation…there are some situations that are way beyond your control. The truth of the matter is that I had no business being married at that time, period! let’s not even go to the choice of who I married. I can’t sacrifice my life in the alter of your imagination or your fantasy.” she said Ireti shared a clip of the interview on her Instagram page with the caption; “There is a time to be silent and a time to speak. In this age where everything one says is scrutinised and quartered; it takes a certain level of trust to bare intimate details .. we are here now.” Furthermore, in a Twitter exchange with some of her followers this morning, Ireti explained why she still bears Doyle despite the divorce. See below. By Patricia Amogu Abuja - Nigerian Celebrity Couple, Patrick and Ireti Doyle are officially back together. The broadcaster made this known on Monday via an emotional note he shared on his Instagram handle@#Patrick Doyle on Monday promising to make up for all his mistakes. “I have been more undeserving of… In "News" Nigerian actress, Ireti Doyle has turned a year older and has released a new stunning photo to celebrate. Veteran Nollywood actress, Ireti Doyle clocks 52 today. She was born on May 3, 1967. She released the photo seen above on her Instagram page to celebrate. She simply captioned it: "#WrappedInGrace… In "Entertainment" Ireti Doyle, a Nollywood actress, has recounted how she earned her first lead role in the movie industry after the lady who was cast in her place failed to show up. The writer-cum-social commentator, whose acting career has spanned more than two decades, took to her Instagram page to narrate… In "Entertainment"