By FLORENCE ONUEGBU LAGOS- Community Development Associations (CDAs) in Lagos has endorsed the second term bid of Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Sen. Bola Tinubu. The Chairman of the CDAs in the state, Mr Afeez Hamzat, made the pronouncement during the Community Day Celebration, held at the Police College, Ikeja, where representatives of all 57 council areas of the state participated. The Community Day Celebration, organised by the State Ministry of Local Government and Community Affairs, has the theme: ”Strengthening Community Engagement For Inclusive Governance”. Speaking at the event, Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu said that the endorsement for a second term was an attestation that his administration had been doing a lot in the state. Sanwo-Olu promised that his government would not embarrass the masses for the confidence they reposed in the administration. Enumerating some of his achievements, he said that not less than 40 traditional rulers had been installed since the administration came on board. ”I acknowledge everyone of you and I recognise all the CDAs here today. It gives great honour to address you at another annual community day celebration “I cannot thank you enough for being our eyes and ears in the last three years since the launch of our ‘Greater Lagos’. ”Let me emphatically say that at the inauguration of this advisory council in March 2020, you have not only been dependable but trusted. You have been given a lot of advice. ”Our loyalty is to serve the people. We have assured you purposeful governance. That assurance is being confirmed. I take this endorsement for the entire political structures in Lagos State, including our presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. ”Let us put a man who has done it in Lagos State, so that all what he did in Lagos can come to bear at the national level,” the governor said. The CDAs chairman, Hamzat, said that the achievements of the present administration endeared the community members to endorse the governor for a second term in office. ”On behalf of over 4,000 active CDAs in Lagos State, we appreciate the state goverment’s efforts towards our CDAs. Some of the landmark projects are the Blue Line, massive roads infrastructure, establishment of two new universities. ”If not for the timely intervention of your goverment, many lives would have been lost in the state during the COVID-19 pandemic. We thank you for the efforts all geared for the wellbeing of the people. ”My people said I should express thank you for approving this annual programme. We humbly remind you of your promises during our last meeting. ”On this note, the executive resolved we are openly endorsing you for second term and we are presenting APC flag to you as a symbol of our endorsement,” he said. Earlier, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Community Affairs, Mr Balaji Roberts, said that the programme was to demonstrate that dividends of democracy were provided for the people. ”The state government welcomes you as our development partners. It is in recognition of this that we have gathered here today and we are presenting prizes,” Roberts said. (NAN) By FLORENCE ONUEGBU IKEJA- Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State said on Monday in Ikeja that Nigerians could not afford to make mistakes at the 2023 general elections.Sanwo-Olu said this at the Lagos House, at the Year 2022 Eid-ul-Adha celebration by the First Family of Lagos State, organised by the… In "Politics" BY ADELEYE ADEYEMI Engr. Bola Babarinde, the Chairman, APC South African Chapter LAGOS- The Tinubu/Shettima and Sanwo-Olu/Hamzat Independent Campaign Group (ICG) has appointed the Chairman of the South African Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Bola Babarinde, as the Deputy Director, Diaspora. The Director-General of the ICG, Mr… In "Politics" Bolaji Buhari Lagos, - The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress(APC), has said that residents of the former federal capital city made the right decision by voting Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu as governor. The party spoke through Chief Sunny Ajose, its Deputy Chairman, at an ”Appreciation Dinner” held on… In "News"