By CHRISTIAN OGBONNA EBONYI- Mr Felix Mgbada, Member, Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) Board of Trustees (BOT) in Ebonyi, says there are no arrangement or written documents made to authenticate any zoning arrangement for governorship position in the state. Mgbada disclosed this in a press conference held on Friday in Umuoghara, Ezza North Local Government Area of the state, noting that power can come from any zone. “Ebonyi has never had any arrangement for zoning since the inception. All we have been witnessing are political and everyone that have ruled Ebonyi as governor is by ‘luck’.” “I am a PDP BOT member and no shifting of ground. For me, zoning is a non issue. I support one, who is ready and capable to take the state forward. One who can drive the economy for the people. “I stand with Dr IfeanyiChukwuma Odii, the PDP Gubernatorial candidate in Ebonyi, because I cannot change my party. “I urge all party faithful across the 13 local government of the state to close ranks to secure Ebonyi’s future in the forthcoming general polls. “There is no gainsaying the fact that Odii had built up his name, capacity and enviable antecedent, which prepared him to provide leadership for the people of the state. “Odii is a man of solid reputation, who have made people. He is zealous, broad minded and dynamic. He has the capacity to bring the yawning change for the people. As BOT member of the PDP, let me state clearly that we have done with our primaries and court cases arising from it. There will be no further primaries in our party in Ebonyi. “Let’s rally round Odii on his onerous task of taking Ebonyi to greater heights. Our state is PDP and we must recover our mandate in the 2023 elections,” Mgbada added. NAN recalls that the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APC) had championed zoning for Ebonyi governorship position in the 2023 polls. They argued that power must shift to the North, where the APC candidate, Francis Nwifuru, hails from and not to any other zone. The present Governor, David Umahi, is from the south and the PDP Gunernatorial candidate, Odii, is also from the same zone. (NAN)