Presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Mr Peter Obi, on Saturday in Kafanchan, Kaduna State, promised to stamp out corruption if elected as president. Obi made the pledge at a meeting with traditional rulers in Kagoro, Kaura Local Government Area in the south of Kaduna State. He said corruption had been preventing Nigeria from realising its full potential, “hence the need to stamp it out. “With your support, I will fight corruption and block all areas of revenue leakages. “We will stop the wastages in government and start saving to rebuild our country. “Opposition says I am stingy, but nobody has accused me or my running mate of corruption,’’ he said. Obi restated his resolve to fight poverty as a way of reducing crimes. “We must start pulling our people out of poverty because the more you reduce poverty the more you reduce crime,’’ he said. The presidential candidate said he would work with traditional rulers to address security challenges facing Nigeria. In his remarks, the Chief of Kagoro, Ufuwai Bonet, appreciated Obi for identifying with the people of Southern Kaduna. He prayed God for leaders that would address the numerous challenges confronting Nigeria. (NAN) ....Says he will grow economy, end corruption. By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Group under the auspices of Nigeria Anew Movement (NAMO), a nascent group of patriotic Nigerians with a vision to deepen democracy in Nigeria with the enthronement of credible leadership, has endorsed the presidential flag bearer of… In "Top Stories" Peter Obi ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - The Labour Party presidential candidate, Mr. Peter Obi on Monday continued his chat with Nigerians via Twitter, highlighting the policy thrust of his administration if elected by the Nigerian people, saying that the burden of corruption in any form is borne by the people.… In "Politics" By AISHA GAMBO •Peter Obi Kaduna- Former governor of Anambra, Peter Obi, says he will invest in the youth and create job opportunities, if elected president in the 2023 general elections.Obi said this on Monday in Kaduna while interacting with People’s Democratic Party (PDP) delegates and seeking their support in… In "Politics"