By Cecilia Ijuo Abuja, – Mr Tony Blair, former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, has condoled with the President, African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr Akinwumi Adesina over the death of his mother, Mrs Eunice Adesina. Blair in a condolence letter on behalf of himself and wife Cherie, which was addressed to the AfDB president, said the deceased lived a fulfilled life. He also condoled with other members of Adesina’s family, describing the loss as a huge one. The former prime minister said late Mrs Adesina, who died on Dec. 22, 2022 at the age of 92, was industrious and a dedicated Christian, who served her immediate family and her community well. “Cherie and I want to convey our heartfelt sympathy on your loss and also to express our profound admiration for your mother, her life, achievements and extraordinary grace and character. “She showed a strong ability for learning and scholarship, something which no doubt helped her return to her Alma Mater Otubu Memorial School as a qualified teacher in 1949. “She was much loved and respected as a teacher;but it is a tribute to her industry and determination that she was not content simply to be a teacher but decided to start her own business.’’ Blair said late Eunice had strength of character, a trait, which he said distinguished her from her peers. He further said the deceased went into different lines of businesses, ranging from dress making, and general merchandise to catering, adding that she had a remarkable career. The former prime minister, who said the deceased, left a lot of fond memories, said “we all have the time on this earth allocated by God to us. “Each life has its own events, memories and experiences. “The key is in what we impart of ourselves to others, what we give and take in the service, care and compassion that we show because the effect of that lives after us. “If we have spent our allotted time well in a good life, that will make its mark and impression on the world around us.’’ He prayed that the deceased “rest in the peace she so richly deserves’’. (NAN