The Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) and Zeenab Foods Ltd. have commenced the shipment of agro-commodities to Nigerian Export Trade House in China. Mr Victor Ayamere, the Managing Director of the group said this during the kick-off of shipment of the commodities in Idu Industrial Layout on Thursday in Abuja. Ayamere, who said 20 containers were being shipped today through Onne port in Rivers, expressed optimism that more would be exported within 45 days. ”We have 17 containers of ginger and three sesame seed containers living here. And we are going to move an average of 300 containers within the next 45 days,” he said. The managing director stressed the need for youths, especially NYSC corps members to develop interest in export business to ensure continuity, boost job opportunities and grow the economy. He urged Nigerians, who were interested in shipping those commodities to liaise with the group to ensure ease in exportation of the products. On challenges, he said it was difficult to move the commodities to the ports due to bad roads and there was also non-availability of sophisticated machines to speed up the process. He commended NEPC for the establishment of the trade house, while urging the Federal Government to ensure a level playing ground to enable the business to thrive. The Executive Director/CEO of NEPC, Dr Ezra Yakusak urged Nigerian exporters to leverage on the platform to increase exports of Nigerian goods to China and the entire Asian continent. Yakusak, who was represented by the Director, Market Access Department in NEPC, Mr Babatunde Faleke said Zeenab, with the support of NEPC, acquired, set-up its offices and concluded its business registration in China. ”We also acquired the General Administration of Customs (GACC) of the People’s Republic of China for ginger and sesame seed, while awaiting approval for other products,” he explained. According to him, the Export Trade House is being managed on Public-Private Partnership to provide visibility for Nigerian products in the targeted country and region. ”Zeenab Foods Ltd. has now commenced shipment of Nigerian products to China. ”Today witnesses the first official shipment of 20 containers of ginger and sesame seeds worth 1.311million dollars through the Onne port in Rivers to the Nigerian Export Trade House in China. ”The shipment is expected to arrive China within 45 days. This will facilitate the official launch of the Nigerian Export Trade House in China before the end of March 2023. ”NEPC is also calling on Nigerian Ports Authority and other relevant organisations to as a matter of urgency, consider the provision of necessary infrastructure in the other smaller ports in the country. ”This is to ease the congestion at the Apapa Port and make export seamless, ” the NEPC boss said. The Chinese representative, Mr Allen Zhang said the monetary value of trade between Nigeria and China in 2022 stood at 26 billion dollars. According to him, the figure is twice higher than the trade between China and Ghana, four times higher than that of Kenya and six times higher than their trade with Cameroun. While commending the trade relations with Nigeria, Zhang expressed China’s readiness to import more agricultural commodities from Nigeria. (NAN)