By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – A new General Officer Commanding (GOC), 3 Division Nigerian Army, Maj. Gen. Abdulsalam Ibrahim, on Friday took over the affairs of the Maxwell Khobe Cantonment Rukuba Barracks near Jos. The new Army boss said he will smile and sting with officers and men of the Division, charging them to take their work seriously with all diligence. “I will laugh and smile with you everyday but when it comes time to sting, I will sting”, Gen. Ibrahim said at the Army headquarters in Jos, during the handing and taking over ceremony performed by the outgoing GOC, Maj. Gen. Ibrahim Ali. According to him: “No matter how much we joke, please when it comes to work, do your work professionally. I won’t ask anybody for loyalty. Loyalty should be 100 per cent. Please do not hesitate to ask questions where you have any doubt. “By the grace of God we will continue from where Gen. Ali stopped. Where we are going to add, we will add to the best of our ability. “I am making this promise to you that we will do our best, Please trust us. “I wish Gen. Ali the best in his new appointment as the Theatre Commander Joint Task Force North East OPERATION HADIN KAI. Wherever we go we need to be praying for each other. We pray we will finish our tenure successfully he said”, he said. It will be recalled that in an effort to ensure administrative and operational efficiency in the Nigerian Army, amidst recent operational successes recorded in combating emerging security challenges, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lieutenant General Faruk Yahaya recently approved the redeployment of Major Generals and Brigadier Generals amongst several other senior officers across the Nigerian Army formations and units in the country. Notable among the new General Officers’ Commanding (GOC) appointees are Major General Ibrahim Ali from Headquarters 3 Division to Theatre Command as the new Theatre Commander Joint Task Force North East OPERATION HADIN KAI, while Major General Abdulsalam Ibrahim from Army Headquarters Department of Training to Headquarters 3 Division as the new GOC as well as Commander Operation Safe Haven