….Promises Better Welfare for Police Family By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, has commenced the distribution of cheques to cover Insurance benefits of officers who lost their lives while in service, as well as those who suffered various forms of life-threatening injuries while on active duty. The total sum of cheques presented to about Seven Thousand families of deceased officers and those injured or rendered disabled in the line of duty between 2012 and 2020 amounts to over Thirteen Billion Naira. The Force Public Relations Officer, Force Headquarters, Abuja, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi disclosed this in a statement made available to Sundiata Post in Abuja. According to the statement, these backlog payments were made possible through the IGP’s passionate drive to ensure that Police Officers are adequately catered for in the event of injury or permanent disability due to the risks associated with policing, and that families of deceased police officers are adequately catered for in the absence of their breadwinners. The IGP while reiterating the value of human life and wholeness, emphasized that prompt payment of insurance and other benefits due to officers who have met with some misfortunes due to the risky nature of policing in our contemporary environment and unforeseen hazards of policing, would greatly boost their morale and ensure they put in their best in service to the nation. The IGP further promised better welfare packages for members of the police family either serving, retired, or slain in the line of duty, so as to cement the already existing esprit de corps amongst the components of the police family.  By Deborah Coker Benin -   The Nigerian Police Zone 5 Headquarters, Benin, has presented cheques for N5.2 million to beneficiaries under the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Family Welfare Scheme. This was announced in a Statement by the Zonal Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Emeka Iheanacho and made available… In "Metro" By ISHAQ ZAKI GASAU- The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr Usman Alkali, has presented cheques worth over N30.2 million to families of eight deceased policemen who lost their lives in active service. Zamfara Commissioner of Police, Mr Ayuba Elkanah, presented the cheques on behalf of the IGP, in Gusau… In "Metro" By Shuaibu Tatu Birinin Kebbi -   The Kebbi State Police Command on Thursday presented cheques N7.38 million to six families of police officers who lost their lives in the line of duty. The Commissioner of Police, Ibrahim Kabiru, who presented the cheques to the beneficiaries in Birnin Kebbi, said… In "Metro"