Vice President Yemi Osinbajo says the values of hard work, discipline, integrity, trustworthiness, respect and patient will determine the successes and failures of individuals and society. Osinbajo made this assertions in a lecture at the 100th anniversary of Baptist Boys High School (BBHS), Abeokuta, held at the school premises on Tuesday. According to him, the values of hard work, discipline, integrity, trustworthiness, respect, patient and delayed on gratification determine the successes or significant that individuals or societies attained. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the vice president spoke on the topic: “Values: The Difference Between sSuccess and Failure”. Osinbajo added that the true test of an academic institution was the quality and achievements of its products in life and “by this standard, BBHS is certainly outstanding”. He said: “In order to establish the point that I will like to make today on this question of values, I would like to refer to four old boys of BBHS who have held high positions in the public service of Nigeria. “Chief Obafemi Awolowo of 1928 set of BBHS, the first Premier of the then Western Region, was described by Emeka Odumegwu Ojukwu as the best President Nigeria never had. “Pioneer of free education in Nigeria, investing over 41 per cent of the western region’s budget on education alone, built the first Television in Africa. “He built the tallest building at some points in time in Nigeria; the Cocoa House was at some point the tallest building, 26 stories. “He fought for true democracy, he rejected every move to compromise his position. He was unfairly jailed, but he remained resolute,” Osinbajo said. The vice president described former President Olusegun Obasanjo of 1957 set of BBHS as another distinguished old students of the school. “A military Head of State, who set a standard of honor when he handed over power, according to the promise made by his administration, to an elected civilian government. “He went on to become an elected President for two consecutive terms. Obasanjo also ended up in prison unfairly and unjustly and while in prison he refused to compromise his position until he was freed,” he said. The vice president also eulogised the acclaimed winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election, Chief MKO Abiola of 1956 set and a former Attorney-General of the Federation, Bola Ajibola of 1955 set. He said that these men stood for principles, even in the great temptation to compromise, adding they made personal sacrifices. Osinbajo said that what distinguished nations was not just talent or material resources, but values remained most important. “We have seen from the four examples of the BBHS old boys, who were in public service and attained significant and greatness that success is not based on talent and opportunities alone. “They all worked hard, they fought for what they believed in and in three of the four cases they even went to jail for their beliefs. “I believe that BBHS has shown that Nigeria can produce highest quality individuals and that we can run the most efficient government and private institutions, if we teach the right values in our schools,” he said. Osinbajo maintained that there was need for a national consensus to accept and implement an ethical revolution. He said that government must lead this ethical revolution by rewarding ethical behaviours and ensuring speedy punishment for misconduct. In his remarks, Prof. Olukayode Oyesiku, the Global President of BBHS Old Boys Association, said that the centennial celebration was packaged to educate all about Nigeria’s national development. Oyesiku said the association had remained steadfast in advancement of knowledge, adding that resources were mobilised among themselves to contribute their quotad to the school that made them. Also, Gov. Dapo Abiodun of Ogun, explained that the school had produced men of honour in all ramifications and equally recorded many firsts in all areas of human endeavours.(NAN)