Berlin, – Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says the International Olympic Committee (IOC) would be telling the whole world that terror “is somehow acceptable’’ should Russian and Belarusian athletes are able to compete at Paris 2024. The IOC confirmed last week it intended to uphold sanctions against Russian and Belarusian state and government officials ahead of next year’s Olympics in the French capital. It added that it would explore opportunities for athletes from both nations to compete under a neutral flag. Ukraine subsequently threatened to boycott the games, unless the IOC reversed its decision. “Attempts by the International Olympic Committee to bring Russian athletes back into the Olympic Games are attempts to tell the whole world that terror is somehow acceptable. “As if you could shut your eyes to what Russia is doing in Kherson, Kharkiv, Bakhmut and Avdiivka. “Russia cannot use the Olympics or any other sports event as propaganda for its aggression or its state chauvinism,’’ president Zelensky said. Zelensky went as far as to compare the IOC’s decision to the one made in the 1930s when Nazi Germany hosted the 1936 Olympics. “There was a major Olympic mistake. The Olympic movement and terrorist states definitely should not cross paths,’’ he said. Zelensky also confirmed he has discussed the issue with French president Emmanuel Macron. (dpa/NAN) By OLAWALE ALABI President Volodymyr Zelensky KIEV/BERLIN- Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has once again called on the International Olympic Committee (IOC) not to allow Russia to compete at the Summer and Winter Olympic Games. “It is obvious that any neutral flag of Russian athletes is stained by blood,” said the… In "Foreign" MOSCOW    - Russia’s Olympic Committee agreed on Tuesday to support its athletes who choose to compete in next year’s Winter Games in South Korea as neutrals following a ban on the Russian national team. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) last week banned Russia from the Games, due to take place… In "Sports" By Ikenna Osuoha   Pyeongchng (South Korea)   -     The Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) said on Friday that it had dismissed 47 appeals from Russian athletes and coaches to participate in the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, which opens later in the day. The Russians had appealed their… In "Foreign"