…Says victims deserve compensation By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has decried the alleged bombing of over 40 herdsmen in Doma local government area of Nasarawa State, saying that the incident is highly regrettable. The Executive Secretary of the Commission, Chief Tony Ojukwu OFR, SAN, made this statement in Abuja over the weekend while reacting to media reports on the alleged erroneous bombing of civilians, including herdsmen by the Nigerian Air Force. According to the Chief Human Rights Officer of Nigeria, the NHRC demands urgent action by the government by way of compensating the victims and holding erring officers accountable in order to forestall further occurrence. He said it is quite unfortunate that the lives of these citizens are cut short in this painful and sad manner. The loss of the life of one citizen is sad not to talk of 40 citizens. The position of the NHRC on the incident was contained in a statement signed by Fatimah Agwai Mohammed, Deputy Director Public Affairs of the Commission made available to Sundiata Post. According to the statement, “The Commission is seriously worried about the incident as Nigeria cannot afford such costly mistakes that usually take the lives of many innocent civilians because it adds to the number of extra judicial killings in the country”. The Learned Silk added. Speaking further, the NHRC Boss said, “while we urge the federal government and the Nigerian military to ensure justice and compensation to the families of the victims , the NHRC will in line with its mandate, monitor the development and seek the protection of the rights of victims as well as payment of compensations for the lives and properties lost as a result of the unfortunate incident”. The NHRC Boss is also using this opportunity to appeal to the affected communities particularly in Nasarawa state where the regrettable bombing took place to remain calm and peaceful and not to take the laws into their hands to avoid further escalation of the crisis. In the same vein, the Human Rights Advocate prayed to God for the repose of the souls of the victims just as he asked that God in His infinite mercies, grant their loved ones the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. In a related development, the Commission has expressed concern over the spate of killings in the South East, where rampaging gunmen have been gunning down innocent citizens with reckless abandon. “We are therefore calling on the various security agencies and well-meaning individuals and groups in the south east to appeal to all aggrieved persons and armed groups in the south east to lay down their arms and allow the south east to return to its former peaceful status and embrace dialogue and forgiveness.