By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Kogi State Government has queried the paramount ruler and Ohinoyi of Ebiraland, Dr. Ado Ibrahim for refusing to welcome President Muhammadu Buhari to the state. Sundiata Post recalls that President Buhari was in the state on December 29, 2022 to inaugurate some projects built by the administration of Governor Yahaya Bello. In a letter signed by Director of Chieftaincy Affairs, Enimola Eniola, the prominent monarch was accused of exhibiting a deliberate attitude and actions capable of bringing “Kogi State and Ebira land in particular to grave disrepute.” Sundiata Post gathered that the palace of the Ohinoyi of Ebiraland was rocked by explosions on the same day, resulting in the death of three people and several others injured. The letter described the action as a flagrant disregard to the persons and high offices of the President and the Governor. “This action of yours is an act of insubordination and disloyalty to the President and Commander-in-Chief of Nigerian Armed Forces, the Executive Governor of Kogi State and the entire Ebira nation as a whole. It portends grave danger to the Security of the State and laying bad precedence for Traditional Institution of the State. “In view of the above, I have been directed to request you to forward a written explanation within 48 hours why disciplinary action should not be taken against you for these acts of insubordination and disloyalty. Oral explanations may be required from you when a panel is set up to study your case,” the letter read in part. See full text of the query below: Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi has congratulated the Ohinoyi of Ebiraland, Ado Ibrahim, on his 93rd birthday anniversary, describing his knowledge in rulership as a blessing to Ebira land, Kogi and Nigeria. Bello sent his felicitation in a statement issued by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Onogwu Muhammed on… In "News" ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday declined to support the second term bid of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State. Speaking at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, the President told traditional rulers from Kogi State to go home and let the people decide who should be governor in… In "Top Stories" •Dr. Ado Ibrahim, Ohinoyi of Ebiraland The Ohinoyi of Ebiraland in Kogi State of Nigeria, Dr. Ado Ibrahim will host prominent personalities, traditional rulers and high profile religious leaders on Sunday, April 25 when the first ever Ebira translated Holy Qur'an is publicly presented.The public presentation will climax over 15… In "Metro"