A 55-year-old man, Oluwole Akande, has been arrested by men from the Criminal Investigation Department, Lagos State police Command, for allegedly impersonating the State Commissioner of Police, Railway Command, Yetunde Longe, to defraud an 80-year-old man of N250 million. According to CP Longe, the victim’s wife called CP Frank Mba to intimate him of an alleged plan by one CP Longe to demand millions of naira from her husband so as to drop a petition on her table, against him. “CP Frank Mba replied to the wife of the victim that he knows CP Yetunde Longe cannot make such mischievous demand and promised to call her to verify and get back to the woman. CP Frank Mba called me to relate the matter and I confirmed that the information was totally wrong. I said there was no petition of such before me and I don’t even know the victim. It was at this time the State CID Panti was informed to trace the suspect and he was apprehended. He confessed to having impersonated me,” Longe said Investigations by the police show that the suspect had fleeced his victim of N250 million. The victim reportedly sold two of his houses and a filling station to meet the demands of the suspect until his wife contacted CP Frank Mba, which led to his arrest. Confessing to the crime, the suspect said he started the business of impersonation in 2022, and CP Longe has been the only person he used. Akande said he decided to defraud his victim after discovering an illegal business he was involved in. The suspect who disclosed that he was the only person involved in the crime, admitted that he knew the impersonation would dent the image of CP Yetunde Longe, but that he never knew it would backfire. It was further gathered that after collecting the first payment of N1.5 million, he devised other means to get more money from the victim amounting to N250 million. The victim reportedly sold two of his houses and a filling station to meet the demands of the suspect until his wife contacted CP Frank Mba, which led to his arrest.