ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the reconstitution of the governing councils of Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research (NISER) and the Centre for Management Development (CMD). The announcement of the presidential approval was contained in a statement issued by the Director of Information in the Federal Ministry of Budget and National Planning, Mrs Folasade Boriowo. According to the statement made available to Sundiata Post on Tuesday: “The Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning hereby announces the approval by the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, of the Reconstitution of the Governing Councils of Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research (NISER) and the Centre for Management Development (CMD). “Membership of Council of NISER includes Dr Emmanuel O. Imafidon (Chairman), Dr Hauwa V. Ibrahim, Professor Banji Oyelaran-Oyeyinka, Sabiu Zakari, Kalli Gazali, Professor Benedict N. Akanegbu and Felicia I. Onibon (Members). “Other members of the Council are: the Director of Institute; Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Industries or his representative; Director (Macro) in the Ministry of Budget and National Planning; the Statistician General, National Bureau of Statistics; and Director of Research, Central Bank of Nigeria. “The Council of CMD comprises the following members: Mrs Binta F. Shuaibu (Chairman); Barrister Marie O. Idaomi; Professor Muhammad A. Mainoma (mni); Mr Olawale Joseph Ademola; and, Mr Bitrus D. Chinoko (incumbent Director General of the Centre). “The membership of the Council of CMD also consists of a representative each of the following: Ministry of Budget and National Planning; National Universities Commission; Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association; National Youth Service Corps; Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation; Industrial Training Fund; and, Central Bank of Nigeria. “This announcement is preparatory to the inauguration of the two Governing Councils by the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Ikanade Agba, which will take place on a date to be announced soon.” By Cecilia Ologunagba Abuja - Sen. Udoma Udo Udoma, Minister of Budget and National Planning, has urged board members of National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) to work with the management to promote sustainable and cost-efficient programmes of the bureau. Udoma made the call at the inauguration of the Governing Board… In "News" By Jessica DogoAbuja - The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research (NISER) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Research and Policy for National Development. The two organisations signed the MoU when the Director-General of NISER, Dr Folarin Gbadebo-Smith, led a delegation… In "News" By Nse Anthony-Uko ABUJA, (Sundiata Post) -- The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) in collaboration with the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) and Nigeria Institute of Social and Economics Research (NISER) is set to conduct an Impact Assessment on some selected Privatised Enterprises under the reform and privatisation programme of… In "Business"