Abuja – Kayode Oladotun, popularly known as Do2dtun, has been summoned by the Nigerian Police over an ongoing investigation into allegations of domestic violence in his marriage An invitation letter from the Force Criminal Investigation Department requested the presence of the OAP at 11:00 am on Monday, January 16, 2023, to answer questions regarding the allegations. The document reads: “This is to formally invite you in respect of an ongoing investigation at the SWAT/FCIID, Abuja on Monday, January 16, 2023, at 11:00 am for an interview with the Commissioner of Police, through DSP Umar Ubali. “Kindly call this phone number on your arrival. Thank you as we appreciate your cooperation. Dotun and his estranged wife Omotayo got married in 2013 and the union produced two children. However, Omotayo instituted a divorce proceeding before Justice A. I Akobi of Court 23, High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, in Suit Number: GWD/PET/25/2021, sometime in November 2021. In the court documents, Omotayo accused Dotun of forced abortion, domestic violence and emotional abuse. Also, recall that Dotun took to Instagram on December 16, to accuse Omotayo’s popular brother DBanj of trying to pervert the course of justice. Abuja - Omotayo, the wife of on-air-personality Kayode Ojuolape Oladotun popularly known as Do2dtun, has filed for separation from the Cool FM’s host over allegations of forced abortion, domestic violence and emotional abuse. The duo got married in 2013 and the marriage produced two children. However, Omotayo instituted a divorce… In "Metro" Teebillz has apologized to OAP Do2dtun over death threat he received when he announced he would be interviewing Tacha. The death threat appears to have been issued by angry Tacha fans who wondered why he wanted to interview her despite his stance against her during the BBNaija show. The threat… In "Entertainment" ABUJA - Investigation into the brutal rape and murder of Miss Vera Omosuwa, the University of Benin 100-level microbiology student, has been moved to Abuja on the orders of the Inspector General of Police (I-G) Mohammed Adamu. Force Headquarters, has taken over from the Edo State Police Command, according to… In "News"