Chief Ikedi Ohakim, A former governor of Imo state, on Monday escaped death when his convoy was attacked by gunmen leading to the death of four of his police orderlies.The former governor, who spoke to a Sundiata Post source, said he was just very lucky to survive the attack.. He said the incident happened this evening (Monday) at Ehime Mbano. He had gone to meet with Chief Tony Chukwu in preparation for hosting of Governor Hope Uzodimma over the weekend by Okigwe Zone. The gunmen attacked his convoy and burnt it when they were unable to capture the former governor, who governed Imo State from 2007 to 2011. Another source close to the ex-governor disclosed that it took the brevity of his driver for him to escape. The source said ”His Excellency was the main target but his driver was smart enough to beat them because they were driving to block him. ”Disappointed that their main target had escaped, they blocked his backup vehicle and burnt it. The four policemen with him burnt.” Our correspondent gathered that a reinforcement came from Owerri, the State capital and escorted him to his house. Former Governor of Imo State, Ikedi Ohakim has been discharged and acquitted by an Abuja High Court of a 3-count criminal charge preferred against him by the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed. The police chief had accused the ex-governor of giving false information against one Chinyere Amuchienwa. It was… In "News" A criminal charge filed against a former Imo state governor, Chief Ikedi Ohakim has been struck out by Justice Taiwo Taiwo of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, today February 24. Ohakim and one Chinedu Okpaleke were being prosecuted by the Federal Government for allegedly threatening to release nude… In "News" A former governor of Imo State, Ikedi Ohakim has been arrested allegedly defrauding a businesswoman, Chinyere Amuchinwa of over N500 million. Thisday reported that the police arrested Ohakim and later granted him administrative bail. But the former governor is set to charged to court following a petition, which was signed by… In "Politics"