By ISAIAH EKA UYO- Gov. Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom on Tuesday led residents of the state in the 2023 session of the annual Solemn Assembly and Thanksgiving Service to usher in the New Year.In a speech at the interdenominational Church service in Uyo, tagged “Go forward”, Emmanuel said that peace remained God’s greatest blessing to the state during his tenure.He said that peace had been fundamental to all other achievements of his administration.He, therefore, said that it was important for the state to appreciate God for what He had done and encourage Him to do more.The governor urged the people to go forward and know where they are, how they got there and then be confident that God will move them forward.“As we have done in the preceding years, to hand over the state to the Almighty God, I want us to rededicate this state unto God.“When we rededicate something to God, we are asking him to strengthen what He has done for us.“So, today we are standing as a people telling God, strengthen that which you have done for Akwa Ibom State and God will do it for us in Jesus name,” Emmanuel said.He said that God had never disappointed the state, “even in the most tempestuous times”.Earlier, the Guest Minister and General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, said he was in the state “as an Oracle of God to proclaim to Akwa Ibom people to move forward”.According to Adeboye, God has no pleasure in backwardness or stagnation.Speaking on the theme of the service, taken from Exodus 14:15, he said that “God is constant and controls tomorrow”.He admonished the people to put their trust in God.He also gave assurance that with the rededication service, peace, joy and prosperity would continue to reign in the state.He further said that God in his wisdom would enthrone the governor’s successor, who would advance his blueprint for greater development of the state. (NAN) By ISAIAH EKA Governor Udom Emmanuel UYO- The Akwa Ibom chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has inaugurated its Governorship Campaign Council for the 2023 general election. Speaking at the ceremony on Tuesday in Uyo, Gov. Udom Emmanuel said that the PDP was set for victory at the 2023… In "Politics" By Isaiah Eka Uyo -   The Akwa Ibom State Government says it plans to establish an airline company to ensure maximum utilisation of its modern airport. Gov. Udom Emmanuel said this in his speech at a solemn assembly to usher in the New Year in Uyo on Wednesday. Emmanuel… In "News" By Chibuike Nwabuko   Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Former President Goodluck Jonathan has charged Nigerians not to make the mistake of voting those he described as killers into elective positions ahead of the 2023 general elections. He gave the charge on Sunday in Uyo during a special interdenominational service to… In "Politics"