MAIDUGIRI (Sundiata Post) The Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi continued his round the country national campaigns at the weekend with the Obidient team arriving Maiduguri, the Borno State capital armed with solution to the insecurity that has ravaged the state for over a decade. Obi told critical stakeholders in the state that include women and youths that if elected he and Datti, his running mate would find lasting solution to the insecurity in the state and the country once and for all. He noted that previous leadership failed to tackle the insecurity in the state because they were not addressing it from the root but stressed that he and Datti would squarely tackle it from the source. The LP presidential standard bearer said that any solution to security that is not tackling the youth unemployment and the injustice in the system would not make success in ending insecurity. Obi said that his administration would restore the business glory of Maiduguri and take people back to their houses and farms where they should be. “Sambisa forest that the terrorists have used as a base from where they torment this state will be turned into a farm land to produce”. “Through our Consumption to Production policy, we will engage the youths, pull people out of poverty and return the state to its original position as the commercial hub of the region,” he said. The former Anambra state Governor told the people that the future of the youths is infinitely intertwined with that of the country and the forthcoming election is about Nigeria youths and their desires to take back their country. Obi further explained that the coming election is an existential one because it’s going to change the dynamics of our political life as is going to be based on competence, character, antecedents of prospective leaders and their capabilities both in physical and mental state.“This election is not going to be as in the past when they come with tribal and ethnic sentiments to deceive us, it’s not even anybody’s turn but that of you Nigerian youths to take back your country” The LP Presidential candidate said that he and Datti are coming with rich private sector background and will bring them to bear if voted in as they will see education as an investment not a social responsibility.On the ravaged war situation in the state, Obi said that it would be taken care of with massive infrastructural development for the ravaged areas.Obi and his team also paid courtesy visit to the palace of Shehu of Borno, Shehu Abubakar Ibn Umar Garbai El-Kanemi. The Vice Presidential candidate Senator Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmad who also spoke in various outings in Maiduguri assured the people that he and Obi will turn the arable land in the North into wealth.The National Chairman of the LP Bar Julis Abure also assured the people of Borno state that only Labour Party administration under Obi and Datti will unlock the potentials of the North and tackle the insecurity. By ZUBAIRU IDRIS KATSINA- The Labour Party Presidential Candidate, Mr Peter Obi has promised Nigerians that he would eradicate poverty and insecurity challenges in the country, if elected.He made the pledge on Monday in Katsina at a presidential campaign rally.“We are here with promise of building new Nigeria where there… In "Politics" By POLYCARP AUTA Mr Peter Obi JOS- A group, Peter Obi Movement in Diaspora and Naija (POMDAN), has said that Mr Peter Obi, the Presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), will revive the economy and ensure food security in Nigeria if elected in 2023. Mr Emmanuel Ameh, the Convener… In "Politics" By FUNMILAYO OKUNADE Mr Peter Obi, Alhaji Yusuf Datti ADO-EKITI- Mr Peter Obi, the Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party(LP), on Thursday promised to make Nigeria better and safer if elected in the February election. Obi made the promise at the party’s campaign rally held at the Ekiti state Pavilion… In "Politics"