By AUGUSTA UCHEDIUNOR LAGOS- The Maximum Security Custodial Centre Port Harcourt has held her Maiden Annual Interfaith Thanksgiving to mark the end of different activities for the Year 2022 on reformation and rehabilitation of inmates. Deputy Superintendent of Corrections, Juliet Ofoni, who is the Spokesperson of the Rivers Command of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS), said this in a statement on Friday. According to her, this is in accordance to section 14 subsections 1 – 3 of the Nigerian Correctional Service Act 2019. The act  states that “ The Correctional Service shall provide opportunity for education, training, vocational training, as well as training in modern farming techniques and Animal husbandry for Inmates, this is aimed at facilitating their Reintegration into the society’’. The Controller of Corrections, Rivers State Command, Felix Lawrence, who was represented by the Officer in Charge, Efiong O Etim, Deputy Controller of Corrections, appreciated all who were present. He urged the inmates to be of good behaviour as their stay in custody was temporary. He also encouraged the inmates to always take the engagement of training in different chosen skills acquisition and education earnestly to enable them become useful citizens to ease their reintegration back to the society on release. One of the invited guests, the Imam of Port Harcourt Muslim Association, Alhaji Ahmed Olariwaju, assured the inmates that he would always pray for their freedom. He called on well-meaning citizens to support the Nigerian Correctional Service in the reformation process. Pastor Martins Agu of International Prison Ministry and Apostle Briggs Collins of Word Exploration Ministry also urged inmates to always give thanks to God in all seasons. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that other activities leading to the thanksgiving included a Cultural Festival,  showcasing different tribes and their rich cultural heritage. There was also a football competition between inmate teams. Ofoni said that the Flamingos FC won with 1 -0 against the Nobles United. The captain of the winning team, Godswill Ayaka, while receiving the cup, appreciated the Nigerian Correctional Service for the opportunity and appealed for support from stakeholders. The crowning of the event was the birthday celebration of all inmates born in the month of December. According to Ofoni, being incarcerated does not mean they are less humans and that the celebration has become a monthly event since the assumption of the officer in charge DCC EO Etim. (NAN)