Some leaders of the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Odi-Olowo Ojuwoye Local Council Development Area (LCDA) in Mushin, Lagos State ,on Tuesday urged residents to collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) to enable them vote during the general elections. They gave the advice at the official presentation of the party’s flag bearers for 2023, to the people of Odi-Olowo Ojuwoye/ Mushin areas of the state. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN)reports that the candidates of the party for the House of Representatives (Mushin Federal Constutuency 1&2), and State House of Assembly(Mushin 1 and 2 )were presented at the event. Speaking, Sen. Ganiyu Solomon,who represented Lagos West from 2007 to 2011 at the Senate, urged residents to ensure they participate in the general elections. He,however,said participation could only be possible if residents collect their PVCs from the various collection points in the state. “This is the appropriate time for you to equip yourselves with your voters card, that only will allow you to vote for our party during the elections. “Ensure you tell your friends, colleagues and neighbours to collect their PVCs too, to allow them exercise their franchise during the general elections,” Solomon said. Mr Yemi Alli, the party’s House of Representatives candidate(Mushin 1 Federal Constituency), also urged residents to get their PVCs and use them to vote for APC during the elections. He advised party faithful in Mushin/Ojuwoye to go all out to collect their PVCs and vote APC to ensure victory. “We have been working on the social infrastructure of our community and we will continue to do more.And that’s why we want you to get your cards to enable you to cast your votes for APC candidates,” he said. In his remarks,Mr Nurudeen Akinsanya, a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly(Mushin),who is also re-contesting for the seat, applauded party members and residents for the support given to the party in Mushin/Odi-Olowo. Akinsanya ,however ,said the best way to show their support would be to get their cards and vote for the party in the forthcoming elections. “We want you to go out in your various communities to get your PVCs and ensure you participate in the elections. “We don’t want anybody to stay at home without casting their votes during these elections. “Cast your vote for APC, for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, for President, Sanwo-Olu for governor Yemi Alli for Reps. and Akinsanya for Lagos House of Assembly,” he said. Mr Olusola Ajala, the Executive Chairman, Odi-Olowo LCDA in his remarks,also appealed to the residents to equip themselves with their PVCs to enable fully during the elections. Ajala said it was a critical period for residents and party members to get their voters card for the elections as the polls would be conducted in a month’s time. “This is the party that will reposition the country for good. It is not about winning elections, but to win with wider margin. “We advise you to go and get your cards to prepare you well for the coming elections,” the council chairman said. Mr Rafeeu Aderanmola, Chairman APC Campaign Committee,Odi-Olowo LCDA, urged residents to utilise their PVCs well after collection. Aderanmola appealed to residents not to sell their PVCs or exchange them for material things,but use them to vote their preferred candidates during the elections. (NAN)