Niger Tornadoes Football Club of Minna on Sunday in Bauchi beat hosts WIkki Tourists FC 2-0 in a 2022/2023 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) fixture. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Group B Match Day 1 fixture at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium saw a first half full of action. There were several unutilised goalscoring chances and attempts by both sides. In the second half of the match however, Niger Tornadoes were more clinical and scored in the 73rd minute through Idris Saidu from a free-kick. David Okoromi extended their lead two minutes later. Kabiru Dogo, the Technical Adviser of WIkki Tourists FC, at the end of the game congratulated Niger Tornadoes for their victory. But he also expressed his sadness at losing at home in their opening match of the new season. “Our players did their best though by creating several goalscoring chances, only for them to run out of luck. We were not lucky in the opening half of the match. “But it is normal. We are going to improve on our attacks and striking before the next match,” Dogo said. On his part, Abubakar Bala, the Technical Adviser of Niger Tornadoes FC, said it was delightful winning their opening match away. “I am extremely happy. It was a good match, by the fact of getting victory from an away match. “Both teams made good efforts with a lot of chances created, especially in the first half, which were not utilised for goals. “But we are lucky that in the second half we utilised our chances to score the two goals,” Bala said. (NAN) ABUJA - Niger Tornadoes on Saturday in Abuja grabbed a vital 1-0 away victory against bottom placed Prisons FC of Abuja in a Week 29 match of the Nigeria National League (NNL). The match played at the Area 3 Sports Complex saw Yakubu Alfa scoring the only goal against already… In "Sports" By Olayinka Owolewa   Ilorin   -     Kwara United Football Club of Ilorin recorded a 1-0 victory over Wikki Tourists of Bauchi to end a three-match poor run in the 2017/2018 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) on Wednesday. The match day four encounter in the NPFL played at… In "Sports" Abuja - Following are the results of Match Day 22 fixtures in the 2016/2017 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), played on Sunday: Kano Pillars FC 2-1 Lobi Stars Enyimba International 1-0 Plateau United MFM FC 1-0 FC IfeanyiUbah ABS FC 2-1 Niger Tornadoes Wikki Tourists 2-1 El-Kanemi Warriors Rangers International… In "Sports"