By FLORA LAWAL ADO-EKITI- A former Commissioner at the National Broadcasting Commission, Mr Yomi Ayorinde, has described the 100 days in office of Gov. Biodun Oyebanji as a ray of hope for the people of Ekiti. Ayorinde, also the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for Ido/Osi Constituency II for Ekiti House of Assembly, said in a statement on Wednesday in Ado-Ekiti, that the administration would take the state to the next level. He said that within the first 100 days in office, the governor had taken some decisions which have gone a long way to bring sanity to the state. Ayorinde, the immediate past Chairman of the State Urban Renewal Agency, said: “Oyebanji’s 100 days in office was a strong and steady footing. “On the attainment of 100 days in office, you have fulfilled the real reason behind the idea of of 100 days by its originator. “They include key policy pronouncements, critical appointments and the review and unfolding of strategy for enduring and sustainable development.” According to him, the governor has demonstrated that Ekiti is not safe for criminal elements, hence, the peace being enjoyed across the state. “You have kept to your promise of running an all inclusive government, thereby reducing political hostility and promoting patriotism in the state. “Your prompt payment of salaries and arrears of pensions has not only put the workers in a pride of place, but also gave the hope that other outstanding payments will soon be settled,” Ayorinde said. He lauded the efforts of the governor for youths, as demonstrated through tour of Ministries, Departments and Parastatal Agencies to secure employment for the unemployed. “While we can go on and on, in your 100 days of solid foundation-laying, we believe these are strong starters for better things to come. “I want to commend the governor for building on the achievements of his predecessor. “One unique and comforting fact is that Your Excellency’s clear resolve to make use of Ekiti State’s human resources from any part of the world regardless of political affiliations. This, indeed, is the hallmark of true statesmen,” Ayorinde said. He urged all residents, especially the civil and public servants to “continuously and unconditionally support the governor in his vision and mission to move the state to the next level”. Ayorinde urged the governor to remain focus and shun political shenanigans from sore losers. (NAN)