By ALABA-OLUSOLA OKE AKURE- Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has reiterated the commitment of his administration to enhance the health sector in the state and replace healthcare professionals who have migrated. Akeredolu stated this at the inauguration of Samuel and Dorcas Oladiyun Maternity Home at CAC Oke – Isegun, Ile-Oluji in Okeigbo Local Government Area of the state. The governor, represented at the event by the state Commissioner for Finance, Mr Wale Akinterinwa, said that his administration had prioritised healthcare in its REDEEMED Agenda and intends to consolidate on the gains made during his first term. A statement made available to newsmen on Tuesday in Akure, by the Public Relations Office (PRO) of the Finance Ministry, Mr Bayo Egunjobi, quotes the governor as saying “my administration will not play politics with health of people.’’ Akeredolu said his administration was always ready to collaborate with genuine investors in the development of the state’s health sector to provide quality health services to the people irrespective of class, age, ethnic group, religion or political affiliation. He promised to establish additional School of Technology in the Southern Senatorial District of the state with a view to addressing manpower challenge at the primary health level and wider coverage. Akeredolu, who enumerated some achievements recorded in the sector by his administration, said that the government was constructing world-class infrastructure at the University of Medical Science Teaching Hospital at Ondo and Akure complexes. He added that the Mother and Child Hospital in Akure had also been upgraded and given approval to offer full range of secondary health care services. Akeredolu explained that Mother and Child Hospitals had been increased from two to seven to cover all the senatorial districts in the state. ” We approved the release of the state counterpart fund to the Federal Government – Funded Basic Healthcare Provision Fund Programme (BHCPFP) for the vulnerable persons, widows, retirees, aged, women and children below the age 5 where about 20,595 residents  have been enrolled and enjoying medical care,” he stated. Akeredolu, therefore, congratulated the donor of the health facility, Pastor Wole Adetiyun, and encourage other well-meaning sons and daughters of the state to complement government’s efforts at making health care accessible and available. In his words, the donor of the project to the church, Adetiyun, thanked God for making his dream of many years come to reality. Also speaking at the occasion, the Jegun of Ile-Oluji, Oba Adetimehin Olufaderin, appreciated the donor for the project and appealed to all health workers in the3 country to be loyal, hardworking and dedicated.(NAN)