ABUJA – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has extended the timeframe for the collection of Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) in its 774 Local Government Offices nationwide. The extension is for one week. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye Esq., disclosed this in a statement issued this Saturday evening, January 28, 2023. The statement reads: “The Commission met today, Saturday, 28th January 2023 a day after its meeting with the Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) from the 36 States of the Federation and the Federal capital Territory, Abuja and deliberated on a number of issues, including the reports from RECs on the ongoing collection of Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) in its 774 Local Government Offices nationwide. “It will be recalled that at the meeting with RECs on Friday, 27th January 2023, the Chairman of the Commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu indicated that the Commission will not hesitate to consider additional measures to ensure that all citizens have ample opportunity to collect their PVCs ahead of the General Election. “Having reviewed reports from all the States of the Federation, the Commission is encouraged by the progress made so far as more Nigerians troop out daily to collect their PVCs. “Arising from reports from the various States and discussions with Resident Electoral Commissioners, the Commission has decided to further extend PVC collection in all its Local Government Offices nationwide by an additional one week. The ongoing collection of PVCs nationwide will, therefore, continue and end on 5th February 2023. This is the second time the Commission has been extending PVC collection nationwide and this will be the last extension of the exercise. Collection period has further been extended by an additional two hours and will start at 9am and end at 5pm daily including Saturdays and Sundays. “Those that engaged in double and multiple registration should not bother visiting any of the Commission’s Offices as the Commission did not print their PVCs. The Commission will continue to act on all reported cases of sharp practices during the ongoing PVC collection and will ensure that no Nigerian is disadvantaged and all those that carried out valid registration have an opportunity of collecting their PVCs.” ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has extended the deadline for collection of Permanent Voter Cards (PVC). The Commission had initially said 22 January 2023 was deadline for collection. The new deadline is 29 January 2023. A statement signed by Festus Okoye, National Commissioner & Chairman… In "Top Stories" Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has again commenced the distribution of Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) to registrants at the 8,809 electoral wards across Nigeria. “The Commission also resolved to devolve PVC collection to the 8,809 Registration Areas/Wards from Friday 6th to Sunday 15th January 2023,”… In "Top Stories" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has reacted to complaints from the electorates concerning the difficulties encountered in obtaining their Permanent Voters Cards (PVC) from the electoral body, stressing that it will ensure that all citizens have ample opportunity to collect their PVCs ahead… In "Top Stories"