By ISHAQ ZAKI GUSAU- APC governorship campaign council in Zamfara says reinstating PDP governorship candidate, Dr Dauda Lawal-Dare will not in any way challenge the party’s predicted victory in the March 11 governorship election in the state. The Director, Directorate of Publicity of the council, Alhaji Ibrahim Danmalikin-Gidangoga stated this while speaking with newsmen on Sunday in Gusau.e The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that the Federal High Court Gusau had earlier nullified PDP governorship primary election that produced Lawal-Dare as the governorship candidate of the party. The court also stopped PDP from fielding a governorship candidate for the state for the March 11 governorship election. The Court of Appeal, Sokoto Division, in a judgement delivered on Friday set aside the earlier judgement of the lower court and declared Lawal-Dare as the authentic PDP governorship candidate in the state Reacting to the development, Danmalikin-Gidangoga said that APC has been the strongest political party in the state, “We are not in any way scared because of the reinstatement of the  PDP governorship candidate, we are ever ready for the game. “You, know politics is all about people, APC remained the strongest political party in the state. “No political party has grassroots support than APC in Zamfara” he declared. According to him, APC doe n’ot consider the court judgement reinstating Lawal-Dare as any issue. “The internal crisis due to the lack of internal democracy by the PDP was what led to their crisis to the Appeal Court. “I think it is their own affair, we have not in any way considered it as any issue of concern to us in the APC. “We are focusing on our campaigns that we have started. “We have seen how our campaigns at various local government areas visited recorded large turned out. “That was an indication that APC remained a grassroots political party in the state,” he said. Danmalikin-Gidangoga further called on APC stakeholders in the state to continue with grassroots mobilisation for support for the party. (NAN)