By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu, J – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it has deployed more staff and ad-hoc staff to Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) collection centres in wards and local government levels within Enugu. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that INEC has fixed Feb. 25 for Presidential and National Assembly elections as well as March 11 for the Governorship and State House of Assembly elections. The INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Enugu State, Dr Chukwuemeka Chukwu, told NAN in Enugu on Sunday that it was imperative that more hands were deployed to wards and council areas with large numbers of uncollected PVCs. According to him, for collection of PVCs, INEC announced Dec. 12, 2022 to Jan. 22, 2023; however, extended it by a week. “INEC mapped out a programme from Jan. 6 to Jan. 16 for the ward level distribution and when the commission saw the surge in collection, it extended the ward collection to Jan. 22. “Then, the collection of PVCs will go back to the local government from the ward levels from Jan. 23 to Jan. 29, 2023. “On our review, we found out that some of the ward and local governments have quite a number of uncollected PVCs. “So, we already deployed more staff and ad-hoc staff in those areas to help in issuance of the PVCs to the rightful owners. “So, for INEC, we are doing our best to see that the people of Enugu State and Nigeria as a whole collect their PVCs in general,” he said. The REC, who did not disclose the number of PVCs uncollected in the state, noted that the commission would continue to ensure hitch-free and stress-free collection of PVCs in the state. (NAN) By Stanley Nwanosike   Enugu   -     There are more than 200, 000 Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) awaiting collection in Enugu state, according to the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state, Mr Emeka Ononamadu. Ononamadu disclosed in his address of welcome during the stakeholders’ forum between state… In "News" By Stanley Nwanosike   Enugu,   -      The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Thursday said 200,000 Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) were still uncollected in Enugu state, and urged concerned people to pick up the cards. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state, Mr Emeka Ononamadu, made… In "News" Enugu -   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has urged traditional rulers in Enugu State to caution their subjects against violence and violation of the electoral guidelines. Mr Festus Okoye, INEC’s National Commissioner for Anambra and Enugu States, made the appeal during an interactive session with the traditional rulers… In "Politics"