By Chijioke Chukwuka Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lieutenant General Faruk Yahaya has flagged off the 2023 training week for Division Training Officers of the Nigerian Army. The training is to acquaint the Divisional Training Officers with skills to handle new dynamics of non kinetic threats in a contemporary security environment, Gen. Yahaya said on Tuesday, while delivering his opening remarks at the headquarters, 3 Division Nigerian Army, Maxwell Khobe Cantonment, Rukuba Barracks, near Jos. Represented by the Chief of Training, Army Headquarters Abuja, Maj. Gen. Itsu-Ndagi, Yahaya said this year’s training is aimed at providing a platform for Division Training Officers to compare notes and come out with modalities to enhance training in their respective division training schools. With the theme: “Enhancing Training at Division Level for Better Operational Performance in a Joint Environment”, the Army Chief said regular training of officers will help bridge the gap observed in previous training activities with the view to address challenges and ensure consistency in training across all Nigerian Army formations for better operational performance. According to him: “I consider it expedient to provide the forum at the beginning of each training year an opportunity to brainstorm and upgrade their skills. This initiative is consistent with our vision which is to have a professional Nigerian Army ready to accomplish and assigned missions within the joint environment in defense of Nigeria. “Also, this training week offers a unique opportunity to drive home the vision and its cardinal pillars which are professionalism, readiness, sound administration and cooperation. “The training week will also provide a platform for sharing experience to enhance your capacities to better carry out responsibilities as Division Training Officers”, Yahaya said. Earlier in his speech, the General Officer Commanding, 3 Division Nigerian Army and the Commander, Operation Safe Haven, Maj. Gen. Abdulsalam Ibrahim, said effective training of personnel must be done in formation and units, saying that is where the bulk of young officers and soldiers are stationed. Gen. Ibrahim said the week-long training will give officers the opportunity to brainstorm and discuss on how training will be carried out to the grassroots formations. Our correspondent reports that the Divisional Training Officers week, brought together all heads of training officers in all Nigerian Army formations across the country to interact in Jos for a 5-day training workshop. The Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt Gen Faruk Yahaya, has said that only the best candidates who are medically and physically fit will be recruited into the Nigerian Army (NA). The COAS gave the assurance on Tuesday 25 January 2022, when he visited the Nigerian Army Battle Fitness Centre… In "News" By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), has said the Nigerian Army will be tough on banditry, terrorists and all forms of insecurity bedeviling the country. COAS said the Army is on a daily basis improving on its skills and formation… In "Top Stories" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt Gen Faruk Yahaya has commissioned multiple projects in Janguza Barracks, Kano. The newly completed projects, which include 72 units of Corporals and Below Quarters (CBQ), 30 units of Single Officers’ Quarters (SOQ) and 5 blocks of… In "Top Stories"