By Ige Adekunle Sango-Ota(Ogun) – A 19-year-old man, Ibrahim Yaya, was on Tuesday brought before an Ota Magistrates’ Court, Ogun, for allegedly stealing television set and other valuables worth N4 million. The Police charged Yaya, whose address was not provided, with burglary and stealing. The prosecutor, Insp E.O. Adaraloye, told the court that the defendant committed the offences on Dec. 17, at about 7.00 a.m at No. 40, Adeniran St., Sango-Ota, Ogun. Adaraloye said that the defendant unlawfully entered the house of the complainant, Bolarinde Jonathan, stealing one flat screen television, generator’s parts and other valuables worth N4 million. He said that the defendant was arrested by the vigilance group and handed over to the police. The prosecutor said that the offences contravened Sections 411(1)(2) and 412 of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ogun, 2006. The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge. The Magistrate, Mrs A.O. Adeyemi, granted the defendant N100,000 bail with two sureties in like sum. Adeyemi ordered that the sureties must reside within the court’s jurisdiction and be gainfully employed with evidence of tax payment to Ogun Government. She adjourned the case until Jan. 26 for further hearing. (NAN) By Ige Adekunle Sango-Ota (Ogun) - An Ota Magistrates’ Court in Ogun on Tuesday sentenced a 46-year-old man, Agu John to two months imprisonment for stealing three mobile phones and other valuable items worth N594,000. John, whose address was not provided, pleaded guilty to burglary and  theft. In her ruling,… In "Metro" By Ige Adekunle Sango-Ota(Ogun), - A 44-year-old unemployed man, Yunusa Ganiyi, was on Tuesday arraigned before an Ota Magistrates’ Court, Ogun, for allegedly stealing a tricycle worth N1.9 million. Ganiyi, whose address was not provided, is being charged with theft and conspiracy. The Police Prosecutor, Insp. E.O. Adaraloye, told the… In "Metro" By IGE ADEKUNLESango-Ota (Ogun)- Two teenagers were on Wednesday docked in an Ota Magistrates’ Court in Ogun for allegedly breaking into a house and stealing electric wire worth  N1.3 million.The police charged Ashiru Nuhu,18, and a 15-year old with burglary, conspiracy and theft.The Prosecution Counsel, Insp E.O. Adaraloye, told the… In "News"