By MUHAMMAD NASIR BASHIR DUTSE- Former Jigawa Governor, Sule Lamido, on Friday said Peter Obi’s endorsement, the Presidential candidate of Labour Party by former President Olusegun Obasanjo was “a big mistake.” Lamido, who was a Foreign Affairs Minister under Obasanjo’s administration, made the remarks while answering questions from newsmen at Bamaina, his country home, near Birnin kudu Local Government Area of Jigawa. “Obasanjo is my boss, I believe in him, but he is also a human being, he can make mistakes. So he made a mistake. “It’s a big mistake for him to endorse candidate outside his own party which gave him the relevance, the importance, the image globally to become what he is. “You don’t do that because of the younger generation. “Whatever he said, wether power rotation or power shift, whatever it is, people are being a little bit dishonest,” Lamido said. The former governor said that people failed to understand that when a party honoured them, dignified and made them who they were, they were expected to respect that party. “So to me, Obasanjo or anybody else, he (Obasanjo), was talking because he was former Nigeria’s President, if he wasn’t, will he talk like this. Whatever he is saying now is because he is a Nigerian former President from PDP. “So PDP invented and dignified him. So a leader is supposed to be inspiring, motivating and should be able to charter a new course for Nigeria so that his disciples will be able to carry on with that,” he said. (NAN) By Abbas Bamalli Kano -  Prominent personalities have continued to troop to the residence of the late elder statesman, Alhaji Yusuf Maitama-Sule at Dawaki Road in Kano metropolis to condole his family. Maitama-Sule died on Monday, July 3, in a hospital in Cairo, Egypt and was buried on Tuesday, July… In "News" DUTSE - Gov. Sule Lamido of Jigawa on Friday appointed former President Olusegun Obasanjo as the pioneer  Chancellor  of the newly established Jigawa State University in Kafin Hausa. The State Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Prof. Haruna Wakili, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria… In "News" Jos -   Alhaji Sule Lamido, a former Governor of Jigawa and Presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has said he will not leave the party even if he loses primaries for the presidential race. Lamido said this in an interview with newsmen at the… In "Politics"