By Joy MbachiEnugwu-Ukwu, (Anambra) – The President-General of Enugwu-Ukwu Community, Chief Patrick Nworji,  has urged people in the area to collect their permanent voter’s cards (PVCs) to enable them vote in the 2023 general election. Nworji stated this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Enugwu-Ukwu,  Njikoka Local Government Area (LGA) of Anambra state. He urged the electorate in the community to visit the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) office in the LG to collect their PVCs in ahead of the general elections slated to hold in February and March respectively. The community leader said that massive awareness needed to be created on the importance of the elections, adding that people in the community were sensitised during the past festivities to collect their voter’s cards. He said that every social medial platform available for usage was deployed to pass information to the people on the importance of collecting their voter cards. Nworji added that the electorate have also been sensitised to use the PVCs at the appropriate time to elect credible representatives. “We are using the religious bodies; market leaders, kindred leaders, youths leaders, and public places to disseminate the information on the importance of having one’s voters card handy. “We have succeeded in reaching out to both the literate and illiterate people in the community, as it is our social responsibility to enlighten the people through voter education as well as inform them on the role of the PVCs in the electioneering process. “The choice of electing our political leaders can only be exercised at the ballot through the use of the PVC and not by mouth,” he said. Nworji added that an intense enlightenment campaign on a collection of PVCs would commence in the community on January 5 when the electoral body would begin the distribution of PVCs in the various political wards of the community. “We have four political wards in Enugwu-Ukwu; it is expected that from Friday, Jan. 6, to Sunday, Jan. 15 at 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m., officials of the electoral body will be in the town distributing the cards to the people,” he said. The community leader appealed to the people to go out in large numbers on the days slated for the distribution of the voter cards to collect their PVCs stressing that it was a civic responsibility to cast their votes during the general election. He reminded the people to visit the wards with any means of official identification including a driver’s license, national identity card or international passport to be able to collect their PVCs. “Your PVC is your power to elect a credible political leader.  Do not miss this golden chance to be amongst the people who will make things happen in the state and the country at large,” he added. (NAN)