By CHIMEZIE ANASO AWKA- Chief Arthur Eze, Anambra born oil magnate, has reaffirmed support for Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the PDP and his Sen. Ifeanyi Okowa running mate in the February  and March general elections. Eze said this during his solidarity visit to Prof. Obiora Okonkwo, the Director- General of PDP Presidential Campaign Committee in Anambra in his Ogidi country home, Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra. He described Atiku as an honest, liberal, and a pan-Nigerian who aspired best for the country. The billionaire urged the people of the Southeast to continue the strategic relationship with the North by supporting Atiku in the presidential elections. According to him, the long-standing alliance between the North and the South East has always produced many political benefits to the region. “My appeal is for our people to seize the opportunity provided by Atiku Abubakar to renew the age-old alliance between the Southeast and the North; we have accomplished far more in this country’s politics through our alliance with the North. “This alliance saw Nnamdi Azikiwe become President of Nigeria in the First Republic and Alex Ekwueme served as Vice President, while Edwin Ume-ezeoke was elected Speaker of the House of Representatives in the Second Republic,” he said. Eze said an Atiku presidency was the surest was to having a president of Southeast extraction. “Atiku has demonstrated his love and concern for us ndi-Igbo by continuously choosing an Igbo man to be his running mate since 2007 when he picked Sen. Ben Ndi Obi; Peter Obi in 2019 and now, Ifeanyi Okowa, an Igbo man from Delta State. “He was willing to scale back his ambition if the ticket was micro-zoned to the Southeast; only Atiku Abubakar agreed to such terms. “He will deliver on his promise of restructuring the country and ensuring that a Southerner succeeds him as president,” he said. In his response, Obiora commended Eze for his unwavering support for the Atiku project and his numerous advocacy efforts which he said, had great impacts in the Southeast. The PDP campaign Director-General said the party was committed to mobilising majority votes for Atiku-Okowa in Anambra.(NAN) ...PDP candidate arrives Anambra today for presidential rally By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The chairman and director-general of Atiku/Okowa Presidential Campaign Council in Anambra State, Senator Ben Obi and Professor Obiora Okonkwo, respectively, revealed that a special team was already working to resolve the rift between the party’s… In "Top Stories" By EMMANUEL OLONIRUHA Atiku Abubakar/Ifeanyi Okowa ABUJA- Former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate has chosen Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta as his running mate for the 2023 poll.Abubakar said this at an unveiling of his running mate at the PDP national secretariat in Abuja on… In "Politics" Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Anambra-born businessman, Arthur Eze, has said he does not approve of the presidential ambition of Peter Obi, a former governor of Anambra State. Obi is contesting the presidency on the platform of the Labour Party following his departure from the Peoples Democratic Party which has former Vice President… In "Top Stories"