ABUJA – According to a video obtained by SaharaReporters on Wednesday, the yet-to-be-identified man said all the commercial drivers, consisting of tricyclists, motorcyclists, and taxi drivers were mandated to attend the rally by their respective bodies. Amotorcyclist in Kwara State has narrated how they were allegedly promised N3,000 to attend the ruling All Progressives Congress presidential campaign in Ilorin, Kwara State on Tuesday. According to a video obtained by SaharaReporters on Wednesday, the yet-to-be-identified man said all the commercial drivers, consisting of tricyclists, motorcyclists, and taxi drivers were mandated to attend the rally by their respective bodies. “From what I heard, any person that goes there will be given N3,000. And this is for the members, I don’t know of the executives. So, if they give us (the members) N3,000, definitely the money (released by Tinubu) is urging,” the man said in the video seen by SaharaReporters. Tinubu and his entourage were greeted by a crowd of supporters that thronged Metropolitan Square, in Ilorin, Kwara State Capital on Tuesday. The APC presidential candidate, who described the broom, the insignia of the APC, as a symbol of freedom, said the “freedom” achieved four years ago will become more meaningful if APC candidates are re-elected. Tinubu had also promised to implement his 16-point plan if elected as Nigeria’s next president. Meanwhile, renting crowds for campaign rallies has been one of the highlights of Nigeria’s election season as the political parties moved to win the support of Nigerians. Omoyele Sowore, the presidential candidate of the African Action Congress did not adopt a rally system like other presidential candidates because of the prevalent, corruption-tainted crowds renting. He also noted that the typical structure used to determine the strength of a contestant in the Nigerian political environment was transactional and did not really represent the true wish of the people. He said, “In 2018/2019 when I first ran, I was confronted with the same question, where is your structure? And I said it then, including the people who now call themselves ‘Obidients’ that when people are ready for a fundamental change, they will form a structure that will procure that change or revolutionary change and that has now become accepted largely. “What hasn’t been accepted is the fact that people can beat the odds with raw will. Nigerians are still doubtful about the ability to change things.” (SaharaReporters) By Ismaila Chafe   Abuja   -      President Muhammadu Buhari has departed for Lokoja, Kogi to attend the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential Campaign rally in the state, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. NAN reports that the president left the State House Helipad for Lokoja via a presidential chopper.… In "Politics" By AFUSAT AGUNBIADE-OLADIPO Senator Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and, Senator Kashim Shettima ILORIN- Kwara residents on Tuesday abandoned their businesses to welcome the APC presidential candidates, Sen. Bola Tinubu and Alhaji Kashim Shetima at the llorin international Airport.The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that thousands of residents of Kwara… In "Politics" Gov. AbdulRahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara State, says the huge crowd that turned out at the APC Presidential rally in Ilorin on Tuesday, is an indication of victory for the party in the forthcoming general elections. Abdulrazaq made the assertion at the rally held in Ilorin, amidst cheers from hundreds of… In "News"