By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Managing Director, Jos Electricity Distribution Company, Engr Abdu Bello Mohammed, has expressed his excitement over the surge in December 2022 revenue collection, totalling N3.3 billion. Mohammed said to ensure a continuous increase in revenue generation, the energy company will strive to boost electricity supply to its teeming customers. “We will sustain quality and sufficient energy delivery to the people of Bauchi, Benue, Gombe and Plateau States to serve as an elixir to the customers”, Mohammed said while briefing journalists in Jos recently. According to him: “The company has put in place a mechanism to expeditiously address faults. We also plan to establish workshops in the four states to prevent delays associated with the repairs of faulty transformers. We don’t want our customers to be out of supply for any reason”, he said. He emphasised however that for the company to achieve the above feat, customers should endeavour to live up to their responsibility of paying for their consumed energy. On the backlog of debt owned the company, the Jos DisCo boss decried that customers are hugely indebted to the company to the tune of over N100 billion, adding that to give soft landing to their debtors, he has introduced a debt discount promo of 30 per cent, due to elapse by end of January 2023. By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - To ensure compliance with all the established regulations, the Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, Dr Musiliu Oseni has charged the Jos Electricity Distribution Company to ensure that all customer complaints brought before it was expeditiously tackled. Dr Oseni gave the… In "Top Stories" By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Managing Director, Jos Electricity Distribution Company (JED), Engr. Abdu Bello has promised to support both the rice and groundnut millers by providing 100 percent electricity supply to the sector within its franchise States. This was disclosed at the weekend in Gombe when… In "News" By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Association of Electricity Distributors of Nigeria (ANED), has advised energy consumers to employ strategies that will help in checkmating electricity thieves in their various localities. ANED made the call recently in Jos during a stakeholders forum organised in conjunction with MacArthur Foundation. The… In "Top Stories"