By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Presidential Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has once again berated the presidential candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for choosing a fellow Muslim as his running mate in the 2023 general election. Atiku said as a Nigerian who believes in respect and tolerance for other people’s religion, said throughout his lifetime he has worked with people from different religions without any friction. “No matter how hard and skilful one dresses the same faith ticket, it is an open invitation to anarchy and a clear statement that not everyone will be carried along in government”, Atiku said on Tuesday in Jos while gracing the 2023 extra-ordinary General Church Council (GCC), of the Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA). Represented by the former Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, Atiku said: “God did not make any mistake in creating people and allowing them to belong to different tribal, ethnic, and religious backgrounds. “A divided Nigeria cannot achieve the purpose of God for us as a people. A divided country will only keep us in darkness and chains. All through my lifetime, I have lived and worked harmoniously with people of other faiths and ethnic affiliations with ease because of mutual understanding and respect. “My business and political partners come from different backgrounds with zero expressions of religious or ethnic sentiments. I have never contemplated the same faith ticket throughout my political career because it will result in unmitigated disaster for all Nigerians. “No Statesman at the incipient adopts a position that clearly excludes nearly half the Country and still hopes to do the work Nigeria is in dire need of. “As Governor- elect of Adamawa State, in 1999, I gave my full backing, against all odds, to Boni Haruna who is a Christian, to take over when I was nominated Vice President. “Boni governed Adamawa for 8 uninterrupted years. Also, in Taraba State, Rev. Jolly Nyame was encouraged to contest the governorship in 1999 with my full backing. We have and are still working together with many Christians across the nation, and the Church should have confidence in my capacity, experience, and ability to deliver credible leadership that unites our people and empower Nigerians of all creeds to live together in peace and harmony”, he said. Atiku appreciates Christians all over the nation for their prayers and commitment to the nation and assured that he will not relent in cementing a cordial relationship between Christians and Muslims at all times.