By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Jos Electricity Distribution Company (JED), has appealed to the Nigerian Military Air Force to assist in protecting electricity installation in Jos and it envious, saying that the activities of vandals is becoming overwhelming. JED who spoke through it managing Director, Engr. Abdul Bello Mohammed said if the activities of vandals are eliminated, the power company is capable of providing over 20 hours of light. Mohammed made the call on Tuesday in Jos when the newly deployed Commander of the 551 Nigerian Airforce Base Jos, paid him a courtesy visit. Represented by the Company’s Head, Regional Operations, Engr. John Emeruwa, Mohammed added that most transformers in Jos has been vandalised with other installations under constant threat on a daily basis. According to him: “Almost on a daily basis, not less than seven to ten transformers are being vandalized in our franchise Area of Plateau, Bauchi, Benue and Gombe States. This is impinging on our operations. “We appeal with you to help us in the areas of provision of security for these assets to enable us to continue serving the public. “We are overwhelmed by the nefarious activities of this category of criminals who wilfully embarked on the destruction of electrical installations to cart away armoured cables and transformer oils for illicit business. “if not for the activities of these vandals, the company would have been vaunting about 20 hours and above daily supply in all our franchise states because we are one of the best DisCos in the country when it comes to effective and quantitative energy distribution”, he said. The energy boss however commended the Airforce in the areas of payment for their consumed energy, urging them to endeavour to be paying their monthly energy charge in full in addition to liquidating their huge outstanding debts. “We know that the Nigerian Air Force is seriously trying by paying part of their monthly energy charges but it is not enough. You need to step up the payments to enable us to meet the market obligations”, Mohammed said. In his remarks, the Commander, Nigerian Air Force, 551 Base Jos, Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet said his visit was to familiarize himself with the management of Jos Electricity Distribution Plc as the two institutions play complementary roles in the security of the State, stressing the relationship between security and electricity. Gabkwet urged the company not to hesitate in attending to their electricity supply need when called upon especially since the Nigerian Airforce has not stopped in terms of payment for their consumed energy. He promised that the Nigerian Air Force would within its mandate give adequate support to the company, especially in the protection of facilities.