By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – As voting have been concluded in almost all the states, some of the outcomes of the 2023 polls are trickling in gradually. Some results so far received indicate that Obi is leading in Enugu, Anambra, Ebonyi, Abia, Edo, Rivers, Cross Rivers, Delta and Benue. Tinubu is leading in Ekiti , Ondo, Ogun, Oyo, Kwara (slim) and Kogi. Atiku is leading in Adamawa, Katsina, Kaduna, Borno, Jigawa, Gombe, Taraba, Sokoto, Bauchi, Yobe, Zamfara and Kebbi . Atiku and Obi are seriously fighting for Akwa Ibom . Atiku seems to be leading in Osun and Bayelsa. The picture from Niger, Nassarawa, Plateau is not clear yet. We expect them to be clear in the next few hours. Obi is leading in FCT. It is also still possible for Obi to hold on to his lead in FCT and win. Obi is leading Lagos mainland, while Tinubu is leading Lagos Island. Tinubu’s side of advantage is more populated. Many people still expect that Tinubu will still win Lagos with a much reduced margin. The results from Imo are not forthcoming, but Obi is now expected to win big there too. More results and data are still being expected from across the country today, but this in largely the state of the race at the moment. Sundiata Post reminds that it is onlythe INEC that would announce the result and winner of the presidential elections. Recall that the INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu has cautioned political parties to only draw their figures from the commission and announced that collation from states will resume by 6pm. He made the call on Sunday when he formally opened the 2023 presidential election collation centre at the International Conference Centre in Abuja. Mahmood opened the collation centre and set certain ground rules for the collation of election results. “The collation centre is hereby declared open until the final announcement of the results of the 2023 presidential election,” he said. Mahmood also said the collation of presidential election results will be done at four levels — first at the 8,889 wards, then at the 774 local government areas, then the Resident Electoral Commissioners at the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory will submit the votes per candidate in Abuja. The electoral chief said the collation centre will be open all day and all night with short breaks. He also cautioned political parties to only draw their figures from INEC and announced that collation from states will resume by 6 pm when results from states would have arrived. Recall that Presidential and National Assembly elections were held in the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory in Abuja on Saturday.