By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Plateau State Chairman of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), Mr. Tokji Mandim has informed journalists that over 2000 supporters of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), have defected to the NNPP in the State. Mandim said the defectors who are majorly from Southern Plateau, a zone the Governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong hails from, is a clear indication that the APC has failed in providing dividends of democracy. According to him: “PDP has failed Nigerians, while APC is the worst. Nigerians are facing the worst conditions ever in the history of the country today because of the policies of the APC. People can no longer feed, pay their children school fees and a sense of hopelessness rent the country”, Mandim said. The NNPP Chairman who spoke in Shendam Local Government Area of Plateau South on Friday in an event to receive the decampees, said the mass defection to NNPP indicates that the party is ready to take over the State. “We are ready to take Plateau in the coming elections because we have a credible candidate in our Presidential candidate, Rabiu Kwankwaso. “We are hopeful because we have paid scholarships for students and have executed so many projects in the State”, Mandim said. Speaking at the event, a candidate contesting for the House of Representatives, Bassa/Jos north federal constituency, under the NNPP, Mr. Yakubu Hassan said the defectors from APC and PDP means that the NNPP is gaining strength in the State on a daily basis. “Now that we are receiving decampees a few days before the elections, it clearly shows that our party has become a house that will provide shelter for the people of Plateau and the nation at large”. Hassan assured party supporters that victory in the February 25 Presidential elections and March 11th governorship elections cannot be overturned. However, one of the defectors who spoke to newsmen, said one of her reasons for defecting to NNPP is because she is tired of the hardship brought by the ruling All Progressive Congress. By AHMED ABBA DAMATURU- Scores of NNPP members in Yobe have abandoned the party for PDP, further complicating the party’s presidential ambition in the February poll. Dr Babayo Liman, the NNPP North-East Zonal Secretary, announced the defection while addressing newsmen on Tuesday in Damaturu. “We are here to inform the… In "Politics" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Two Senators from Bauchi and Imo States, have resigned their membership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), respectively. The lawmakers are Senator Dauda Jika representing Bauchi Central and elected on the platform of the APC; and Senator Ezenwa… In "Top Stories" By MUHAMMAD NUR TIJANI KANO- The All Progressives Congress (APC) received 10,000 defectors from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) and All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) into its fold in Kano on Sunday. Receiving the defectors, the convener of Tinubu Northwest Project 2023, Hajiya Umma-Salma… In "Politics"