By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Aside from the presiding Senator representing Abia-North, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, other contestants seeking to represent the zone at the National Assembly in the forthcoming February 25th polls have been described as “Jesters” by electorates of Nneato. According to the people, they were satisfied with the leadership results of Kalu, who is also seeking a return to the Red chambers under the platform of the All Progressive’s Congress (APC), declaring their resolve to extend his tenure at the Senate with their votes on election day. As jointly decided the Traditional Leader, President General and elders of the community made the announcement on behalf of their constituents to back Kalu’s return bid on Saturday when the Senator’s campaign train visited each ward as part of his reelection campaign activities. Exemplary infrastructural projects built in the localities built by Kalu’s administration as Governor of the state and currently as a Lawmaker were reeled out by the people According to them Kalu’s Leadership antecedents had cemented his place in their minds saying that other candidates were wasting their time as they are no match to the Kalu who is also the Senate Chief Whip. Accompanied by his Team , Kalu’s campaign train made stoppages at Amuba / Umuogbuele Ward, Eziama Ugwu , Eziama Agbor, Aroikpa, Ubahu / Akawa Ward where he interacted with them and got their votes of confidence. Traditional ruler of Nneato, Igwe Ebube Chukwu Kingsley Okereke Igwe Nwajiofor Nnaya III of Nneato Ancient Kingdom , said that his people will forever remain indebted to the Senate Chief Whip because he is the only public office holder that has continued to remember them with basic infrastructures. Igwe Ebube made reference to projects such as the Leru and Nneato express road constructed about 29 years ago under Kalu’s Governorship dispensation. The Royal father also mentioned current projects expedited by Kalu at the Senate , saying that he remains the only candidate they would vote for in the Senatorial ballot paper. “Kalu is own son and he has never disappointed us both as Governor and Senator, so many projects he has done for us and we are very grateful to him. We know that he will do more when returns, and I and my people have resolved to vote for only him in the forthcoming elections”. President General of Eziama Nneato Development Union, , Dr. Elijah Otutu, said that other candidates were merely wasting their effort, saying that Orji Kalu is the only name contesting the Senate owing to his blueprint in their localities. Otutu said they’ll send Kalu back to the Senate with their votes; “The first development Nneato received was from you when you were Governor. In three years you have done projects at the Senate like Renovation of 1 Classroom block, Eziama Primary School Nneato and Construction of 2km road with asphalt and drainage at Akawa Aroikpa road. We have no reason not to vote for you on February 25. We will cast our votes and defend our votes. Community Elder, Chief Boniface Ezechi recalled how Kalu gave the Nneato its first tarred road. Ezechi stated that Kalu opened their eyes to realise that Senators build infrastructures as against what they were told that Lawmakers can’t do more than making laws. He said ; “He doesn’t need introduction, he has opened our eyes to see that Senators can facilitate infrastructures. Without him there will be no coal tar in Nneato and without him no effective representation. He is an enigma to the core , a bridge builder, a friend , brother and father. Our votes for him only. Nnaeto Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) , David Ole urged them to ensure that they have their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) ready to vote for their party. He explained the voting process to avoid void votes , he said that Kalu had performed well to warrant their mandate. While appreciating their endorsements, Senator Orji Kalu charged the residents not to be swayed by food and financial inducements, Kalu said that he is only interested in executing projects and empowerments that will stand the test of time.