Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) says it has the capacity and materials to print new currency notes amid a shortage of cash in the country. Multiple reports quoted the apex bank’s Governor Godwin Emefiele as admitting that the CBN does not have enough materials to print the new naira notes. But the Bank has debunked the claims, assuring Nigerians that the CBN will meet the country’s cash demands in the wake of the currency redesign policy. “For the records, what Mr. Emefiele told the meeting was that the NSPMC was working on printing all denominations of the Naira to meet the transaction needs of Nigerians,” the Bank’s Director of Corporate Communications Osita Nwanisobi, said in a Saturday statement. “While the CBN appreciates the concerns shown by all stakeholders about the distribution of the Naira, we are alarmed at the extent to which vested interests are attempting to manipulate facts and pitch the public against the Bank. For the avoidance of doubt, the CBN remains committed to performing its monetary policy functions, as stipulated in the CBN Act, 2007, as amended. We also wish to restate that the NSPMC has the capacity and enough materials to produce the required indent of the Naira.” No Bank Shutdown The CBN also dispelled reports that it wants to shut down some banks in the country. “We wish to state unequivocally that there is no such plan and that the claims are illogical and do not comply with the workings of the Nigerian banking system,” the statement further read. “The public is therefore advised to ignore such recordings as they do not represent the policy thrust of the CBN and are only the desperate attempts of persons bent on inciting the public against the Bank. A support group, Emefiele Mobilization Team (EMT) says the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Dr Godwin Emefiele remain focused on delivering on his mandate as governor of the apex bank. The group stated this in statement by its spokesperson, Bashir Mohammed, in Abuja while reacting to claims… In "News" By ISMAILA CHAFE Mr Godwin Emefiele ABUJA- The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr Godwin Emefiele, says the excuse of security threats pushed by Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has no bearing on the ongoing currency swap across the country. Ganduje had in an interactive session… In "News" By ISMAILA CHAFE ABUJA- President Muhammadu Buhari has inaugurated the new Naira banknotes, expressing delight that the redesigned currencies were locally produced by the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting (NSPM) Plc. Speaking at the inauguration of the new banknotes which preceded the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting on Wednesday in… In "News"