By ADEKUNLE WILLIAMS LAGOS- The Lagos PDP governorship candidate, Abdul-Azeez Adediran, has visited the Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Revival Movement Church for prayers ahead of the 2023 general elections.Addressing the media in the church, Adediran said the essence of visiting and performing service in the church was to seek for God’s blessings and guidance before the election.“I visited this revered institution to worship with the people of God and to seek God’s face in my  present and future endeavours,” he said.He said he was not at the church to campaign but for the congregation to intercede for him, so that he would record victory in the election.“It is a great moment to be here before this  congregation today, I was listening to your preaching on freedom and total victory, I pray we would be victorious ” he added.“I was excited because the preaching could not have been a mere coincidence. Our mission in the state is to seek freedom and total victory,” he said.“So, we are so blessed that your preaching was in line with our mission for the people of Lagos State,” he said.Adediran said he strongly believes that power and affluence come from God, hence his determination to commit his mission and vision to Him.He noted that his visit to the church was to emphasise that only God could ordain, saying that “the journey was so hard, it is only God that can make it easy for me.”Speaking, Pastor Lazarus Muoka, the founder and General Overseer of the church, said his prayer for politicians was for the will of God be done.According to him, he does not pray for any politicians to win because he believes in the will of God.“Whoever God determines, let him win. if God says you will win, then it is the will of God and not man.“Let the will of God prevails on your aspiration  since you have said that what you are looking for is the face of God. So, let the will of God be.”“For me, all the candidates that are contesting are my choice and whoever God determines, let him emerged as the winner,” he said.Meanwhile, the candidate, while addressing traders at the Balogun Business Association in Alaba International Market, Ojo LGA, commended some Nigerians who had been investing hugely in the state.He promised to protect their investment if elected, saying “I am aware of your existence in all existing  markets  if elected. “We know you want a Lagos where if your containers arrive, you’ll get easy access road to your goods.Commenting, the President of the market, Mr Tokuchukwu Iwelumo, thanked the governorship candidate for talking to their conscience.Iwelumo observed that this election was not about the party but about competency, integrity and capacity of a candidate, adding that the candidate had demonstrated these Qualities. (NAN) By Adeyemi Adeleye Lagos, - ) The Deputy Governorship Candidate of the PDP in Lagos State, Ms Funke Akindele, says God called her and the  PDP Governorship Candidate, Dr Abdul-Azeez Adediran (Jandor) to change the story of the  state if elected in 2023. Akindele, a popular Nollywood Actress, made this… In "News" By ADEYEMI ADELEYE Dr Abdul-Azeez Adediran-Jandor LAGOS- The PDP Governorship Candidate for Lagos State, Dr Abdul-Azeez Adediran (a.k.a. Jandor), says he is not a mole for APC but strongly determined to end its reign in the state. Adediran made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria… In "Politics" By GRACE ALEGBA Dr Abdul-Azeez Adediran-Jandor, Ms Funke Akindele LAGOS- The PDP Governorship Candidate for  Lagos State, Dr Abdul-Azeez Adediran (a.k.a Jandor), says he will retain the 37 inchoate Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs ) in the state, if elected governor in 2023. Adediran told  the News Agency of Nigeria… In "News"