…Bemoans the low mainstreaming of Female officers by relevant security agencies in the polling units visited By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – International Federation of Women Lawyers, FIDA Nigeria has commended the adhoc officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for giving priority attention to women with disabilities, the elderly/aged, pregnant women and Nursing mothers in the voting process during Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections. The women group also bemoans the low mainstreaming of Female officers by relevant security agencies in the polling units visited. FIDA Country Vice President/National President, Mrs Amina Agbaje stated this on Saturday during the preliminary address to the press from FIDA situation room situated at Nicon Luxury Hotel, Abuja, on the participation of women and forms of violence perpetrated against women across four focal states of  Borno, Plateau, Kaduna and Kwara states at the ongoing 2023 general elections. Sundiata Post recalls that FIDA Nigeria with support from UNWomen and the Government of Canada under Advance Women Political Participation Project is observing the 2023 General Elections through 77 INEC accredited observers deployed across 66 polling units in the aforementioned four focal states. According to Agbaje, the observers reported that in about 85.9% of the polling units, priority voting occurred. At Polling units 002 & 003, Ward 7 Igabi LGA, an aged woman was observed given priority. In Plateau at polling unit 001, kitago in Bassa LGA , elderly and pregnant women were observed provided a separate voting priority queue, similarly in Polling unit 005, RCM Primary School, Qua’an Pan LGA , the elderly and pregnant women also have a separate voting priority queue. At polling unit 002, Ward 6 Langtang North, women with disabilities are given priority voting, While at Mafa LGA Polling unit 007, Ward 2 , Borno State older women, nursing mothers, remaining women were prioritized2.8.Existence of Separate Queues for WomenIn 84.5% of the polling units visited, we observed that INEC ensured that separate queues were created for women to exercise their franchise. FIDA Nigeria also observed that across most polling units within thei purview, the bimodal voter’s accreditation system was largely functional which aided accreditation and the voting process. In 91.5% of polling units visited, the BVAS Machine was highly functional, however in 8.5% of the polling units observed experienced technical difficulty which limited women participation, On the commencement of polls, FIDA highlighted that election materials arrived at polling units observed, between the hours of 8:30 – 9:30am. 38 % of the polling units had the election materials before 8.30am, 19.7% by 9.30am and 42.3% later than 9:30am. In her remarks about partiality of electoral and security personnel, the Country President said that In 91.5% of the polling units where observers were deployed, electoral and security personnel were observed to demonstrate some level of impartiality, adding however that there were some concerns of the level of partiality in about 8% of polling units visited. On the turnout of female voters, FIDA Nigeria observed a large turnout of female voters in about 66.2% of the polling units observed. in polling unit 006, ward 2, Kaiama LGA, Kwara State. In Unit 007, Ward 2, Mafa LGA , Borno State, Women were observed in good numbers exercising their franchise. Similarly, on the aspect of under-aged female voters, FIDA confirmed that in 91.4% of the polling units visited, it observed no incidence of underage voting by females. However, in 5.6% of polling units observed, underage voting was witnessed. For instance, in polling unit 003, Ward 1, Zaria LGA, young girls were observed clearly below the stipulated age voting. In polling unit oo6, Ijabo ward , Oyun LGA, Kwara State, a similar occurrence occurred, she said. FIDA Nigeria observed few disturbing incidents of vote trading across 1.6% of the polling units. However, 98.6% witnessed no incidences of vote trading in the polling units observed especially as our observers reported that these polling units were to have witnessed voting inducements. Mrs Agbaje assured that FIDA Nigeria will continue to closely watch the process across the 66 Local Government Areas under the observatory process until it is concluded by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Sundiate Post reports that FIDA Country President said the group will continue to observe the elections and later issue her post-election statement to detail more on the overall participations of women and perpetrated violence. 