By EMMANUEL MOGBEDE  ABUJA- The All Progressives Congress (APC) has assured of presenting Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, one of its chieftains for questioning by security agencies anytime required.Bayo Onanuga, Director, Media and Publicity APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) said this in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja.Onanuga urged the police to leave Fani-Kayode alone. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Fani-Kayode, also Director of Special Projects and New Media APC PCC was on Monday invited by the Department of State Services (DSS) for questioning. The former Minister of Aviation under former President Olusegun Obasanjo was grilled by the DSS for five hours over his tweet. Fani-Kayode had twitted that former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar and presidential candidate of Peoples` Democratic Party (PDP) had a meeting with some military generals to possibly plot a coup. “In spite of the well-publicised invitation of Mr Femi Fani-Kayode by the DSS and the report that the secret police asked him to return for further investigation today (Wednesday). “We were surprised that the police have also jumped into the same matter. “On Tuesday, Feb. 14, the Assistant Inspector General (AIG) Federal Investigation Bureau also invited Fani-Kayode for questioning,” Onanuga said. He said the APC PCC was concerned about the latest invitation by another security agency, few days to the general election, when Fani-Kayode was most needed as the council`s Director of New Media. He added that while the council was not questioning the authority of the police to invite its official, it should be mindful that the truth they seek to find was already being pursued by the DSS. Onanuga said the police should therefore, allow the DSS to complete its investigation. He said Fani-Kayode upon his first interview by the DSS, described the agency as “very professional”, in the way its operatives grilled him. He said that Fani-Kayode was grilled by the DSS on his tweet accusing one of the opposition leaders of cooking something with the military authorities. Onanuga said the DSS at the meeting, made it clear to Fani-Kayode that the basis of his tweet, a newspaper report, was not correct. He added that Fani-Kayode would have another round of grilling by the DSS today (Wednesday). “In a statement on Tuesday night, the agency spokesman explained the reason for Fani-Kayode’s invitation. “Saying it was in respect of an investigation of some of his allegations and insinuations relating to issues relevant to ​national security. “Fani-Kayode faced a panel which interviewed him on the subject matter and was granted administrative bail afterwards. “He was directed to make routine returns to the DSS office with effect from Wednesday, Feb. 15, till otherwise, the investigation however continues, “Onanuga quoted the DSS as saying. He added that the police should allow the investigation go its full course to avoid opening themselves to suspicions that they were implementing an agenda scripted by the opposition. “Fani-Kayode is a respected Nigerian and had served his country as minister of aviation, he will be available any time to answer for his actions,” he said. (NAN)