Natasha Akpoti-Uduaghan, the senatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Kogi central, has accused the Kogi government of trying to disenfranchise voters. In a Facebook live video on Thursday, some residents could be seen rallying around gullies in Ihima, Okehi LGA of Kogi state while others were trying to fill some dug holes. Akpoti-Uduaghan said a road excavation was ongoing in the area, adding that the roads have been cut off. She also alleged that the road excavation was a plot by the state government to influence voter turnout on Saturday for the presidential and national assembly elections. “We woke up this morning to the news that Yahaya Bello has instructed the excavation of all access roads to my hometown. My hometown is cut off from Obangede community; it is also cut off from Eika. And right now, I am in front of another road which was just excavated, thereby cutting me out of travelling out of my hometown,” she said. “What this means is INEC would not be able to [access] certain communities, especially my hometown. What this also means is if Yahaya Bello and his APC goons decide to attack me and the good people of Kogi central in Ihima community, it will be impossible for the DPO to get across to this place. That means I, Natasha Akpoti-Uduaghan, my fellow candidates, and supporters are trapped. We have no way out because Yahaya Bello has dug gullies. “Ihima-Ege road was dug just 10 minutes before I got here. As a matter of fact, I met the Adavi local government chairman running away the moment we came here. And this has happened on all other roads. So, that means I am trapped in here. And if we do not cover these roads by tomorrow, it will be impossible for INEC to get their materials down here. “I am calling on the President and all service chiefs to call Yahaya Bello to order. If he is going to lose, and I know he will lose, he should lose honourably. As a matter of fact, Yahaya Bello you are not on the ballot, so what the hell is your problem? Why are you fighting so hard? Why are you fighting the people?” Another report said the Nigeria Police on Thursday arrested workers of CCECC construction firm allegedly engaged by the Kogi State government to cut off roads to prevent INEC officials and other other stakeholders from accessing the senatorial district. According to the workers; Mr. Ismail Abdulganiyu and Sheidu Amoto who were arrested by the police while digging pits in major access roads to Okehi Local Government Area, they stated that they were commissioned by the Okehi Local Government Chairman, Hon. Abdulraheem Ohiare and instructed to carry out the assignment by one Mr. Toni, the project manager of the company in Kogi State. Upon interrogation, Ismail confessed that he is a staff of CCECC construction firm while Sheidu said he is a staff of Kogi State Ministry of Works; admitting to the collaboration between CCECC construction firm and Kogi State Ministry of Works to block access roads in Kogi Central ahead of the February 25, 2023 general elections. As at the time of filing this report, theCCECC firm has already dug pits in four major access roads in Okehi local government area. Several reports confirmed that the company under the order of the Kogi State government will carry out the same assignment in other four local government areas of Kogi Central to prevent INEC officials from accessing the senatorial district and prevent the impending defeat of the APC candidates. Reacting to the senatorial candidate’s accusations in a statement, Kingsley Fanwo, Kogi’s commissioner for information and communications, said the road excavation was a deliberate security measure. Fanwo said the roads were cut off to divert traffic and refrain criminals who have been breaching the peace of the area from plying the roads. He said the move was spurred by the December explosion in the community as well as recent attacks by gunmen. “It would be recalled that a couple of days ago, the secretariat complex of Okehi Local Government suffered from the effect of an explosive device. The security agencies ensured no life was lost as a result of the explosion, but the state government convened an emergency security council meeting to address the security challenges in the area with a view to devising strategies of averting possible future occurrence, especially as we witnessed similar explosion on December 29, 2022 at Okene,” Fanwo said. “One of the measures arrived at was to restrict the number of routes to the flashpoints to enable security agents properly mount effective surveillance on the other access roads for the safety of the people, especially as they go to the polls on Saturday, February 25, 2023.” He described Akpoti-Uduaghan’s accusations as hypocritical, saying she did not care about the explosion in the community until she wanted to use the road. He called on residents of the state to come out and vote, adding that security measures were in place to ensure peaceful elections as the Kogi government is committed to protecting its people. Former Governor of Katsina State, Alhaji Ibrahim Shema, former Senate President Bukola Saraki, Governor Seyi Makinde others at the inauguration of PDP Campaign Committees for Bayelsa and Kogi States elections at the PDP National Secretariat Abuja. See Photos Below: The Nation In "Top Stories" ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described as a comical event the swearing-in of Alhaji Yahaya Bello as governor of Kogi State on Wednesday. In a statement released by the party's national secretary, Prof. Adewale Oladipo, the party said Bello did not participate in the… In "Politics" Mr Kingsley Fanwo, Kogi State Commissioner for Information and Communication, says Kogi is Nigeria’s new construction hub, citing the massive construction works going on in the state. Fanwo, in a statement on Friday, said that the projects were aimed at “building on the massive, but silent achievements of Gov. Yahaya… In "News"