By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Barely few hours of President Muhammadu Buhari’s address to the nation on challenges of naira swap and state of the nation, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, has met with 15 bank executives and directed them to make the old 200 naira notes available from Thursday (today). He made this known after attending a meeting between President Muhammadu Buhari and the House of Representatives Special Ad Hoc Committee on Naira Redesign Policy, Cashless Policy, and Currency Swap on Thursday. In a chat with State House Correspondents, Emefiele who described himself as a servant appealed to Nigerians to allow the policy to work because he believes it will bring advancement to the nation’s economy when the challenge of illicit financial flows and insecurity is resolved. The CBN Governor stated that the hardship and temporary pains due to the policy are regrettable, but assured that the apex bank will continue to work to ease the sufferings of Nigerians owing to the cash crunch. Buhari had earlier in a nationwide broadcast, directed the CBN to release old N200 notes into circulation to co-exist with new N200, N500, and N1,000 banknotes for 60 days. He, however, said old N500 and N1,000 banknotes are no longer legal tender in Nigeria. The President also apologised to Nigerians over the difficulty experienced in the implementation of the naira redesign policy. Godwin Emefiele, CBN governor ABUJA - Apparently to resolve the current cash crunch triggered by the naira swap policy of the Federal Government, President Muhammadu Buhari again met with the embattled Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Godwin Emefiele behind closed doors at Presidential Villa, Abuja on Thursday. Speaking to… In "News" CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele ABUJA - The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr Godwin Emefiele, has said that banks would Continue to accept the old naira notes even after the deadline for swapping with the newly-designed currency notes. The apex bank recently extended the deadline for the swap… In "Top Stories" By KADIRI ABDULRAHMAN ABUJA- The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr Godwin Emefiele, says the newly redesigned Naira notes are already in banks and ready for issuance. According to multiple tweets on CBN’s official handle, Emefiele made the statement at Daura while on a visit to brief… In "News"