By AGUNBIADE AFUSAT  ILORIN- The Police Command in Kwara has announced the restriction of vehicular movements on Feb. 25 across the state.Mr Paul Odama, the Commissioner of Police in the state, warned the general public on the enforcement of total restrictions of all forms of vehicular movements on roads and waterways from 12 a.m to 6 p.m on Feb. 25.This is contained in a statement issued by the Command’s Spokesman, SP Okasanmi Ajayi, on Friday in Ilorin.“Following the directive of the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, the restriction is aimed at preventing criminally minded individuals from taking advantage of the elections to perpetrate evil in the country.“The command is to enforce total restrictions of all forms of vehicular movements on roads and waterways across the length and breadth of Kwara from 1200am to 0600pm of February 25, 2023.“However, vehicles carrying essential services such as INEC officials, electoral observers, medical personnel, ambulances responding to medical emergencies, firefighters, would be allowed to move when necessary,” the statement read in part.“The command also warns that security aides and escorts are not allowed to accompany their principals and politicians to polling booths and collation centres during the election, as anyone found flouting this directive will be severely sanctioned.“The command emphasises that only security personnel specifically assigned to election duties are to be seen within and around the designated election booths and centres.“The ban on unauthorised use of sirens, revolving lights, covered number plates and tinted glasses is still in force and violators would be sanctioned appropriately,” it added.The command also warned that vigilante groups and other non-actors are excluded from the election security.It appealed for the continued support and cooperation of the members of the public in this regard to enable the state to have a seamless electoral process.It further advised members of the public to cooperate with all security personnel and render any support needed to ensure the success of the election in the state.“The members of the public are urged to discharge their civic responsibility without fear, as measures have been put in place to forestall any untoward incidents that may disrupt the peaceful conduct of the general election.“The following phone numbers are available: 08053321599, 08033364919, 08125275046 and 07032069501 for members of the public to call in case of any emergency,” the statement Said. (NAN) Abuja - The Acting Inspector-General of Police, Mr Solomon Arase, has ordered restriction of vehicular movements in Local Government Areas where re-run elections will be held in five states on Saturday. This contained in statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Emmanuel Ojukwu in Abuja on Friday. According… In "Business" ABUJA - The Inspector-General of Police, Mr Suleiman Abba, has ordered restriction of vehicular movement between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. on March 28 and April 11 general elections. This is contained in a statement issued on Tuesday in Abuja by Mr Emmanuel Ojukwu, the Force Public Relations Officer. you… In "News" By Rabiu Sani Maiduguri -   The Police in Borno on Thursday announced a restriction on vehicular movements during Eid-el-Kabir prayer session in Maiduguri metropolis. A statement signed by DSP Isuku Victor, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the command, announced this in Maiduguri. It said that the restriction… In "Metro"