By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Edo State Government has distanced itself from the comments and moves by the Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai, and some other governors against the currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). In a statement by Special Adviser to the Edo State Governor on Media Projects, Crusoe Osagie, the state government said the Kaduna State Governor does not speak for Edo State and urged for “guided utterances and inferences in such critical matters, especially in the heat of the political season”. “The Edo State Government distances itself from the comments and moves by the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, and some other governors against the currency swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN),” he said. “We are not a party to the suit instituted by the Governments of Kaduna, Kogi, and Zamfara States against the CBN’s policy and take exemption to the claim by the Kaduna State Governor that the move by the three governments is backed by Nigeria’s 36 State Governments. “The currency swap policy, which is intricately linked to the cashless policy of the CBN, is aimed at promoting financial inclusion; preventing inducement of voters in elections; tackling corruption and money-laundering and checking ransom payments among other cash-based financial infractions.” He noted that the state government acknowledges the difficulties that have arisen from the cash swap policy and empathises with all Nigerians over the challenges faced with accessing the new notes. “While this situation is being managed by the concerned authorities and relief being sought by the authorised agencies, it is disingenuous for a suit to be filed by three governments and then inferences are made to the effect that it is the entire state governments in Nigeria that sued the Federal Government and that they all stand against the CBN’s policy,” the statement added. “The Kaduna State Governor does not speak for us in Edo State and we urge for guided utterances and inferences in such critical matters, especially in the heat of the political season. “The Edo State Government reiterates its commitment to the good people of the State and assures that it will continue to work assiduously to protect lives and properties and provide the conducive environment for all to thrive and live life to its fullness.”: Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has revealed that he was optimistic up to three weeks ago that his party, the All Progressives Congress, would win the Edo State Governorship Election. He said opinion polls conducted had shown that the APC candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, would win the election, adding that… In "Politics" An online petition calling on the United Kingdom and the European Union to place a travel ban on Kaduna State governor Nasir El-rufai has passed 22,000 signatures of the targetted 25,000 signatures. The petition on change.org seeks the UK and UN action against El-rufai for allegedly promoting genocide and religious… In "News" ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - The ruling All Peoples Congress (APC) on Wednesday decided to wade into the current agitation for restructuring in the country. The party, according to a statement issued in Abuja by Malam Bolaji Abdullahi, it's national publicity secretary, inaugurated a 10-man Committee to articulate the party's… In "Politics"