KANO – Kano State Governor Umar Abdullahi Ganduje has come hard on President Muhammadu Buhari for refusing to abide by the Supreme Court order and going ahead with the ban on old naira notes. In an audio recording, Ganduje was quoted in Hausa saying, “President Buhari should remember that for several times he was trying to contest Presidency but he couldn’t make it until there was an alliance, but now after enjoying everything, he turned back against the same democratic system that saw him to office”. He said, “the President should remember that this is a democratic setting that allows popular voice and leaders to listen to advice and adhere strictly to those advice. “I wonder why the President is hellbent on making the same Party that helped him to win elections lose out. What did we do to him that he is this ignorant on several pieces of advice forwarded to him?” “This same Buhari he contested again and again but he couldn’t win not until there was an alliance, now he wins and win again for the second term, but now that he is leaving, he wants to cripple the same party that brought him to power. Why? “This currency swap policy, why didn’t the President bring it seven and a half years ago or after elections, but now one must be compelled to think that there is an ulterior motive in the whole thing.” Ganduje, who somehow exonerated the CBN Governor, Goodwin Emefiele, said, “the CBN Governor doesn’t know anything; you now set the nation’s apex bank on fire with this policy”. The governor expressed worry that even the World Bank, IMF, and other financial institutions have advised the president to think twice about the negative policy, but he turned deaf ears. (Journalist101) By ISMAILA CHAFE ABUJA- President Muhammadu Buhari has met behind closed doors with governors elected under the platform of the All Progressive Congress (APC) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the agenda of the meeting was not officially made known to newsmen as… In "News" Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Kano State Consumer Protection Council has closed down the Wellcare Supermarket after the management refused to accept old naira notes from customers. Governor Abdullahi Ganduje ordered the closure of the store, as confirmed by the acting Chairman of the council, Baffa Danagundi; and the Senior… In "Top Stories" By Abbas Bamalli Kano -  Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State on Wednesday presented a 2017 budget proposal of more than  209.8 billion naira  to the state House of Assembly. Ganduje said the 2017 budget, christened `Budget of Sustainable Self-Reliance’, would focus more on developmental projects in the state. According… In "Top Stories"