By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – A group under the aegis of AREWA Christians and Indigenous Pastors Association (ACIPA), has called on religious faithfuls not to be deceived by their clerics in voting along religious lines. Chairman of the Group, Rev. Luke Shehu said a vote for the Presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, Atiku Abubarka devoid of religious sentiments will further keep the All Progressive Congress (APC), and its Presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu from clinching to power. Shehu said since the Christian body has rejected the Muslim-Muslim ticket of the APC it will be wise not to waste votes by voting someone who does not have the national spread to win elections. ACIPA stated this on Wednesday in Jos, during a press conference aimed at reminding Christians not to vote for the Muslim-Muslim ticket which has since been rejected by well-meaning Nigerians. “We don’t want to waste our votes as Christians because this might give Tinubu a chance to become the president of this country with his Muslim-Muslim ticket agenda. “We are not the only ones rejecting the Muslim-Muslim ticket, but also, many Muslim faithfuls have also kicked against it. “So we are happy to announce the bond for a journey in trust, love and unity towards restoring Nigeria from the gates of the North as we have agreed to support a candidate that will unite Nigerians. This is the audacity of the faith and love of ACIPA as we extend a warm handshake of friendship and unity with the Muslims of the North to elect a trustworthy leader that will help restore Nigeria and bring back our confidence towards development”, Shehu said. He continued: “We are not unaware of detractors whose trade in stock is trading with our collective unity and destiny while they benefit from desperate politicians. “In the spirit of our meetings with Muslim groups and sects, we call on Northern Christians and Muslims to resist being misled by clerics on both sides of the divide that use religion as a tool while their ego is being massaged by blind followers”, he said. ASIPA calls on all Christians and Muslims that are allies to Nigeria’s political direction to disregard any directive by any cleric. “It is evident that the next leadership that cuts across the North to the South is more acceptable than a Muslim-Muslim or a vote that will amount to waste and furthering the Muslim-Mislim ticket we have all since rejected”, the Christian group said. JOS (Sundiata Post) - Northern Christian leaders under the aegies of Arewa Christians and Indigenous Pastors Association (ACIPA) have expressed support for the call by a former defence minister, General Theophilus Danjuma, that Nigerians should defend themselves against the rampaging herdsmen. Addressing newsmen in Jos, ACIPA President, the Rev. Luka… In "Local News" By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - A former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara has taken a swipe at the Presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, saying that he always dances at his campaign rallies because he has nothing to say.… In "Top Stories" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja （Sundiata Post）-  Arewa Christians & lndigenous Pastors Association （ACIPA）has described the Aso Rock visit by Arewa Pastors Non-denominational Institute for Peace in Nigeria (APNIPN) as betrayal by men in cassock and white collar akin to role of Judas during Jesus' ordeal, adding that they are the Judas… In "Top Stories"