By NICHOLAS DECHI MAKURDI- Fr. Hyacinth Alia has been declared the winner of the rerun primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue having polled 410,682 votes. Chairman, Rescheduled Election Committee, Sen. Basheer Lado, announced Alia as winner in Makurdi on Thursday. Lado said the first runner-up was Dr Matthias Byuan who polled 14,592 votes while the second runner-up was Sen. Barnabas Gemade who scored 5,125 votes. Prof. Terhemba Shija scored 2,217 votes, while Mr Michael Aondoakaa and Mr Iorwase Hembe scored 3,815 and 638 votes, respectively. “The winner of the exercise is Alia. Having scored the highest vote cast. I declare him as the winner,’’ Lado said. Alia’s candidature was later ratified by members of the party through a voice vote. The party chairman, Mr Austin Agada had put a question to members seeking to know whether the result was a true reflection of what transpired in the field and they answered in the affirmative. “Having ratified Alia’s candidature, I therefore, declare that Alia is the governorship candidate of the party in Benue,’’ Agada said. (NAN) By EMMANUEL ANTSWEN •Reverend Father Hyacinth Alia MAKURDI- Rev. Fr. Hyacinth Alia, a Catholic priest, has emerged the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue.Rev. Fr. Alia, Catholic priest of Gboko Diocese, scored 526,807 votes to emerge as the party’s candidate at the primary election held on… In "Politics" By NICHOLAS DECHI MAKURDI- Rev. Fr Hyacinth Alia, the Benue governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) says it is almost certain that the party will takeover the state in 2023 general election.Alia stated this on Friday when he spoke with newsmen in Makurdi, shortly after the Federal High… In "Politics" By BRIDGET IKYADO Rev. Fr. Hyacinth Alia, APC Governorship candidate in Benue ABUJA- Rev. Fr. Hyacinth Alia, Governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue, says he will continue with his reconciliation efforts to unite all party members ahead of the 2023 general elections. Alia made the pledge… In "Politics"