By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Labour Party Presidential Candidate, Peter Obi, has clarified why he did not pay a courtesy visit to the Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiolu, during his mega rally in the state on Saturday. Unlike other states where Obi always visited traditional rulers before embarking on his campaigns, he started out in Lagos at the Alaba International Market. Obi later headed for the Tafawa Balewa Square, where a campaign rally was held with many of his supporters and party faithful in attendance. Controversy trailed the fact that Obi did not visit Oba Akiolu, as some wondered why the LP standard bearer didn’t do so. Speaking on Channels Television, Monday evening, Obi said it was not an issue. “I have the utmost respect for the Oba of Lagos, I have always done so to every other traditional ruler.  They (royal fathers) are highly respected. “This is not the only place where this had happened. “We wanted to branch to the palace, but we were told that he was not readily available to receive us, and that we should apply and come some other day,” Obi said. Obi said he intended to do that, adding, “there is no issue with that.” Civilization and modern forms of governance have drastically diminished the power and authority of monarchs. Fading, not faded, our hidden admiration for primordial values sustains the influence of monarchs on government and the governed. Monarchs currently have no constitutional role, but their grassroots prominence generates patronage from virtually all holders… In "News" Peter Obi (right) in a close discussion with Pa Ayo Adebanjo. With them is Senator Femi Okurounmu at the Abeokuta rally on Saturday ABEOKUTA (Sundiata Post) - The Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, continued his nationwide campaign in Ogun state on Saturday, declaring that it’s the turn… In "Top Stories" By IMELDA OSAYANDE Mr Peter Obi BENIN- Business activities and vehicular movements were halted on Friday in Benin, following the huge crowd that thronged the various streets to welcome the presidential flag bearer of the Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi.Addressing party supporters at the Baptist Convention Ground, venue of Labour… In "News"