ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – In oder to ensure a smooth transition to a new administration and facilitate smooth conduct of the 2023 general elections, President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the establishment of a Presidential Transition Council. It is to facilitate and manage the 2023 transition programme. Members of the Committee are: i. Secretary to the Government of the Federation – Chairmanii. Head of the Civil Service of the Federationiii. Solicitor-General of the Federation and Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice iv. Permanent Secretaries from the following Ministries and Offices:a. Defenceb. Interiorc. Finance, Budget and National Planningd. Foreign Affairse. Information and Culturef. Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA)g. Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairsh. Cabinet Affairs Office, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF) i. General Services Office, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF)j. Economic and Political Affairs Office, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF)k. State Housev. National Security Adviser vi. Chief of Defence Staffvii. Inspector-General of Policeviii. Director General, National Intelligence Agencyix. Director General, State Security Servicesx. Chief Registrar of the Supreme Court of Nigeria; andxi. Two representatives, to be nominated by the President-elect. The Transition Council will be inaugurated by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation on Tuesday 14th February, 2023 at 12 noon at the Conference Hall of the SGF. Members are expected to attend the inauguration in person, Willie BasseyDirector, Information in the SGF office says in a statement. Also, the President has signed the Executive Order No. 14 of 2023 on the Facilitation and Management of the Presidential Transitions. A key feature of the Presidential Executive Order No. 14 of 2023 is the institutionalisation of a legal framework that will enable a seamless transition of power from one presidential administration to another, which is part of President Buhari’s legacy. ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - The All Progressives Congress (APC) has accused the Jonathan Administration of plotting to hinder a smooth handover of power on May29th, as it is becoming apparent that the Administration will not fully cooperate with the incoming government, despite its public posturing in that regard. In a… In "News" By ISMAILA CHAFE President Muhammadu Buhari ABUJA- President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday in Abuja signed the 2023 Budget of N21.83 trillion and the 2022 Supplementary Appropriation Bill into law. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 2023 budget is the last to be prepared by the present administration… In "News" Abuja - President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday called for an institutionalised system that would guarantee transition of power from one democratic government to another in the country. Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Muhammed, made the call at a Stakeholders Dialogue, entitled: ``Strengthening… In "News"