By SAM JONES YENAGOA (Sundiata Post) – Mr David Lyon, whose bid to be governor of Bayelsa State was upturned by the Supreme Court on the eve of his inauguration in 2020, has picked the expression of interest and nomination forms of the All Progressives Congress (APC). APC stakeholders led by Mr. Marlin Danier over the weekend purchased the N50m at the national secretariat in Abuja for Lyon to contest the party’s ticket for a second attempt to be governor of Bayelsa State. Danier, the pioneer secretary of the state chapter, has called on the party leadership to grant him the right of first refusal in appreciation of Lyon’s past showing at the 2019 election. The Supreme Court, in a unanimous judgement by a five-man panel of Justices led by Justice Mary Odili, held that Degi-Eremienyo, Lyon’s running mate, presented a forged certificate to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The judgment followed an appeal filed by Senator Douye Diri, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and his running mate, Senator Lawrence Ewhruojakpo. Danier said it was unfortunate that Lyon was denied the opportunity of rescuing the state as governor saying, “Today we are presenting our principal, Chief David Lyon, a household name in Bayelsa and this country, a young man that gallantly fought a very colossus governor and won. “Today, we are back here to get the APC expression of interest and nomination forms for him to go back and recontest the coming state governorship election. “Ordinarily, and under normal circumstances, he is supposed to be given the right of first refusal by the party. Sales of forms are not supposed to be made open.” According to Danier, Lyon is the only person that is capable of winning the Bayelsa State governorship election for the APC, as he had been tested, tried and trusted. Continuing, he stated: “As I talk to you, everyday, the PDP-led administration in Bayelsa is inviting pastors and imams from different quarters to pray that David Lyon will not become APC governorship candidate. “He is their nightmare; they are comfortable with every other person, but not with Lyon. “I can confidently and categorically tell the world that if David Lyon is given the APC governorship ticket to represent it in the election, more than half of PDP members will come back to the APC.” He urged the APC national leadership to ensure a level playing ground for all contestants should there be other contestants to avoid going to court after the primary. Also speaking, Dr Stella Dorgu, a one-time member of the House of Representatives, assured that with Lyon on the ballot, APC would win Bayelsa. Dorgu, however, said there was need for rigorous campaign by all party members in the state, saying he will bring the trajectory of development to Bayelsa. Mr Indutimi Komonibo, pioneer Minority Leader, Bayelsa House of Assembly, said Lyon would change the narrative for good in the state if elected governor. Komonibo described the former governor-elect as a philanthropist who is down to earth and had the capability and capacity to be governor of Bayelsa. He said: “We have suffered enough for over three years; we have waited patiently because we are law-abiding people, even when our mandate was stolen. “We believe this is the time and this is the right time and God’s appointed time is now.” The APC Bayelsa governorship primary election is expected to hold on Monday, April 10 while the congress to ratify the results of the state and Imo governorship primaries would take place on April 11. INEC has fixed the 2023 Bayelsa governorship election for November 11.