Uganda – Makerere University in Uganda is mourning the demise of one of its students, Emmanuel Wamono, who drowned in a swimming pool while trying to save a child. It was gathered that the regrettable incident occurred at Mountain Inn Hotel in Mbale on Saturday, February 4, 2023. The late Wamono was a 3rd year electrical engineering student and a resident of Livingstone Hall. Makerere University Dean of Students Winifred Kabumbuli, confirmed the sad news in a letter addressed to the university community. “It is with a heavy heart that I must inform you of the passing of one of our own, Emmanuel Wamono. He was a 3rd year electrical engineering student, a resident of Livingstone Hall and we will deeply miss him,? Ms Kabumbuli wrote.  “In light of this tragedy we want to remind all students that our counselling and support services are available to anyone who needs them. Our staff is here to help you navigate your feelings and provide the support you need during this difficult time,? she added.  Burial of Mr. Emmanuel Wamono will take place on 6th February in Bunambutye village, Mbale District where the University will be represented by some members of our community. Through the MUII plus Group Leader Award held by Dr Annettee Nakimuli, a PhD fellowship to investigate the immunology and genetics of pre-eclampsia in an indigenous African population is being advertised. Application Deadline: 17th March 2017 To be taken at (country):  Uganda About the Award: This is a three-year PhD fellowship to be… In "Education" By SundiataPOST, Abuja Former vice president of Uganda, Prof. Gilbert Bukenga is expected to deliver the keynote address at the Founder's Day ceremony of American University of Nigeria (AUN), Yola on November 30. According to a statement made available to SundiataPOST, Dr. Bukenya, who is a member of the Board… In "News" Merck will provide course to medical and pharmacy students in University of Nairobi, of Makerere University, Uganda and University of Namibia NAIROBI - Merck has started the second year of its five-year project to provide European Accredited Clinical Diabetes Management course for medical and pharmacy students in African Universities by… In "Health"