By ABIODUN LAWAL ABEOKUTA- A group consisting of indigenes of Ogun State in the Diaspora, the Ogun State Diasporans, has launched a song dedicated to Gov. Dapo Abiodun’s second term campaign. The group, through the song, highlighted some of the achievements of the governor since assumption of office in 2019 and why he should be reelected. Speaking at a news conference in Abeokuta on Thursday, Mr Oluyemi Ogundele, the Coordinator, said that after a clinical observation of all candidates contesting for the position, the group concluded that Abiodun remained the best. Ogundele stated that the state had received tremendous development under the leadership of the present governor, saying that the government had provided jobs, youth empowerment, infrastructural development among others. ” We believe that there is no alternative to Gov. Abiodun and his running mate. They are the best team for the job. Their achievements so far are enough to prove us right. ” We from the diaspora are willing to partner with the state government in their efforts to make our dearest state a second to none. ” Ogun state has the largest number of Nigerian professionals abroad. The diasporans are prepared to bring more investors on board. We are also ready to invest in the state. ” If permitted, we would help the government to develop a diaspora village. The government only needs to provide the land and we will establish a city with decent and affordable housing projects,” Ogundele said. The coordinator appealed to the state government to work closely with the diasporans to take the state to the next level. He said that it was important for the government to harness the opportunities coming from the state indigenes based abroad. Ogundele promised that he and the entire members of the group would continue to support Gov. Abiodun in the task of moving the state forward. He mentioned the Ogun state diasporans pet project, the biannual Adire International Carnival, as part of his efforts to support medium and low-scale industries in the state. ” It helps promote tourism and our cultural heritage. It helps our economy as thousands of Adire fabrics are being exported for the festival,” he said. The representative of state government and the Deputy Secretary, APC campaign council, Ayo Somide, appreciated the group for the support to the state governor and APC as whole. He also commended them for promoting the locally produced fabric (Adire) and other things they had been doing for the progress and development of their fatherland.(NAN)