ABUJA – The All Progressives Congress (APC) has suspended its North East Vice Chairman, Mustapha Salihu, for six months over alleged “anti-party activities”. According to a notice of suspension released by the party, Salihu had been associating with Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), a move the party feels might affect its chances in the forthcoming poll. Meanwhile, Salihu’s ward chairman, Abdulkadir Abdullahi, Salihu was also suspended. Notices of their suspension were signed by Abdulhadi Ahmed, Vice Chairman of the Rumde ward, and Garba Mohammed, ward secretary. The decision to suspend the duo was taken at an emergency executive ward meeting on Sunday. “The All Progressives Congress, Rumde ward working committee, Yola north LGA held an emergency meeting on Sunday 19th February, 2023 and considered among many other things before it, the immediate suspension of the north-east vice-chairman of the APC, Comrade Mustapha Salihu over glaring and proven anti-party activities, gross abuse of office and creating crisis within the ranks of the party at all levels which if left unchecked will affect the party at the forthcoming general elections,” the suspension notice to Salihu reads. “Therefore, in compliance with the relevant provisions of the constitution of our great party, the members of the working committee have adopted and approved the suspension of comrade Mustapha Salihu for the period of six months with immediate effect so as to serve as a deterrent to others in the future. “This committee is very much aware of the responsibilities vested on it by the party and will always ensure the supremacy of the party above any personal interest of any person or group of persons especially when that poses danger to the chances of the party at the polls. “While appreciating the state working committee of our party for your continued support, we hope our resolution will receive accelerated treatment.” Their suspension has been communicated to the party leadership in Yola north LGA for transmission to the state working committee. The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Nasarawa Eggon local government area of Nasarawa has suspended Commissioner for Lands and Survey Dr Salihu Alizaga. Alizaga, who hails from the Local Government Area, was suspended for alleged insubordination to leaders in his ward and local government. APC chairman in the local government,… In "Politics" Oshawo Stephen (pictured with some executives of his ward), chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in ward 10, Etsako west local government of Edo state, says Adams Oshiomhole remains suspended as a member of the party. Seventeen out of 26 members of the executive committee had signed a resolution… In "Politics" YOLA -  The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Adamawa State has postponed Saturday's ward congress of the party due to late arrival of materials. The Interim Committee Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Salihu Baba-Ahmed, made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Yola on Saturday. ``Materials… In "News"