The Ghanaian and former Premier League footballer Christian Atsu has been found dead under the earthquake rubble in Turkey, his agent has said. Atsu, 31, who played for Newcastle United and Everton, was falsely reported as having been taken to hospital last week. He had been missing since the earthquakes hit Turkey and Syria on 6 February, killing tens of thousands of people. Nana Sechere tweeted: “It is with the heaviest of hearts that I have to announce to all well wishers that sadly Christian Atsu’s body was recovered this morning. My deepest condolences go to his family and loved ones. “I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for their prayers and support. I ask that whilst we make the necessary arrangements, that everyone would please respect the privacy of the family during this very difficult time.” Newcastle paid tribute to their former player on Twitter. “We are profoundly saddened to learn that Christian Atsu has tragically lost his life in Turkey’s devastating earthquakes. A talented player and a special person, he will always be fondly remembered by our players, staff and supporters. Rest in peace, Christian.” In a statement, Everton said: “We are deeply saddened by today’s news that Christian Atsu has been found dead following the earthquake in Turkey earlier this month. Our thoughts are with his family, friends, colleagues at Hatayspor and everyone affected by this tragic event that has claimed so many lives.” “We are deeply saddened by the news Christian Atsu lost his life in the devastation of the earthquakes that have hit Turkey and Syria,” a Premier League statement said. “Our thoughts and condolences are with Christian’s family and friends and everyone affected by this tragic event.” (Theguardian.com) The Ghana international winger is only a few final details away from joining the Toffees for the 2014-15 season, having yet to play a game for the Blues since leaving Porto Everton has "an agreement in principle" to take Chelsea winger Christian Atsu on loan for the season, manager Roberto… In "Sports" Ghana coach Kwesi Appiah has dropped Jeffery Schlupp, David Accam and Jerry Akaminko as he names his team for Brazil. The players were dropped following  a pre-World Cup friendly against the Netherlands in Rotterdam on Saturday night. The coach, however confirmed that he would have been taking Turkey-based Akaminko along… In "Sports" Police Say 14 Miners Die in Southwestern Ghana In "Foreign"