By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The General Officer Commanding (GOC), 3 Division Nigerian Army, Maj. Gen. Abdulsalami Ibrahim has warned miscreants, hoodlums in Adamawa State to refrain from criminal activities and engage themselves in meaningful ventures warning that anyone caught disturbing the peace of the State will be dealt with accordingly. “Criminals and hoodlums Should abandon their nefarious activities and embrace meaningful means of livelihood. “Our troops are well trained and will continue to discharge their duties professionally as enshrined in the Constitution”, Gen. Ibrahim stated this at the Adamawa State Government House as well as the Palace of the Lamido Adamawa and the Emir of Mubi on Wednesday, while paying a courtesy call. In a statement signed by the Acting Deputy Director Army Public Relations 3 Division, Lieutenant Colonel Ishaku Takwa,Gen. Ibrahim called on citizens to support the Army in ensuring a secured society. “I call on the support and cooperation of the citizens in ensuring crime free and secured society for economic activities to thrive. I also solicit for continued support of the troops deployed to secure the abiding citizens”, he said. Ibrahim added that the security agents are working tirelessly to flush out all forms of criminalities and guarantee a safe society especially, as the general elections are fast approaching. “The Nigerian Army is well trained and will continue to discharge their duties professionally as enshrined in the Constitution”, the Army boss said. Responding, the Governor of Adamawa State, Hon Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri said there is an excellent relationship existing between the people of the State and troops of the Nigerian Army deployed in the State. He also applauded security agencies for their concerted effort in nipping criminalities in the bud. However, addressing the troops at various locations, the GOC warned that disciplined soldiers are known for respecting their superiors and discharging their duties effectively and professionally, assuring a renewed commitment to troops welfare, reward good conduct and gallantry as well as punish misconduct. By Johnson Eyiangho   Abuja  -    The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has denied that it is involved in human rights abuses during the herdsmen/farmers clashes in Numan general area of Adamawa as alleged by the Amnesty International. NAF, in a statement by its Spokesman, Air Vice Marshal Olatokunbo Adesanya,… In "News" By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - A statement signed by the Acting Duputy Director Army Public Relations 3 Division Lieutenant Colonel Ishaku Takwa has explained that newly appointed INEC boss in Plateau State,Dr Oliver Tersoo Agundu has solicited the corporation of the General Officer Commanding and Commander, Operation Safe… In "Top Stories" Late Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt Gen Ibrahim Attahiru tirelessly preached loyalty to democracy. He delivered the same message to men and officers of the Army in Adamawa State just hours before he died on Friday, Onimisi Alao reports. On the day of his death, Chief of Army Staff… In "News"