GOMBE – The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Gombe State, Mr Nitte Amangal and Senator Muhammad Danjuma Goje were conspicuously absent on Monday during the campaign of the party in the state. The APC campaign team led by the party’s National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu and the Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was in Gombe on Monday to campaign ahead of the 2023 general elections. At the Pantami Township Stadium, the venue of the APC campaign, Goje and Amangal were absent and there was nobody who stood in as their representatives. According to Daily Trust, their absence may not be unconnected with the crisis rocking the party in the state over the supremacy battle between the camp of Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya and that of Senator Goje, representing Gombe Central Senatorial District. The state’s APC chairman, who led the party to victory during the 2019 general elections, also boycotted the event. Goje is contesting for the fourth time to represent Gombe Central Senatorial District at the National Assembly. He was first elected into the red chamber in 2011 at the end of his two-term tenure as governor. The state chapter of the APC had recently suspended some members of the party for allegedly working against the party. It was learnt that over 105 members in Yamaltu/Deba and Akko local government areas of the state were suspended. Stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Gombe State, on Saturday, passed a vote of confidence on Gov. Inuwa Yahaya, for his style of leadership in the past two years. This is contained in a communique issued at the end of the stakeholders’ meeting of the Gombe South Senatorial… In "News" By ALABA-OLUSOLA OKE Senator Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Senator Kashim Shettima AKURE- The All Progressives Congress (APC) has inaugurated its Presidential Campaign Council in Canada to ensure overwhelming and landslide victory for its Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and his running mate, Alhaji Kassim Shettima, in the February 2023… In "Politics" By PETER AMINE Senator Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu JOS- The Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Sen. Ahmed Tinubu, has said that he will build on the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari in the last seven years.Tinubu stated this on Tuesday in Jos at the flag off of… In "Politics"