Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Kano State Consumer Protection Council has closed down the Wellcare Supermarket after the management refused to accept old naira notes from customers. Governor Abdullahi Ganduje ordered the closure of the store, as confirmed by the acting Chairman of the council, Baffa Danagundi; and the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Social Media, Abubakar Ibrahim.The governor, a supporter of a “professional implementation” of the naira redesign policy, had held discussions with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN); bank managers, security heads, and traditional leaders to find ways to alleviate the difficulties faced by the public. The CBN had extended the deadline for the swap of old N200, N500 and N1,000 from January 31 to February 10 but the Supreme Court held that the Federal Government, the CBN, commercial banks must not continue with the deadline pending the determination of a notice in respect of the issue on February 15. At least five states including Kano had sued the Federal Government over the deadline for three old naira notes. By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Members of the Nigerian council of state have expressed support for the naira redesign policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The council however asked Godwin Emefiele, the CBN governor, to make new naira notes available or recirculate old naira notes to… In "Top Stories" The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has assured marketers and traders that it has made the redesigned naira notes (1000, 500, 200) available via Automated Teller Machines (ATMs). The Branch Controller, CBN, Kano State, Umar Ibrahim-Biu, gave the assurance when the apex bank took its sensitisation on the new naira… In "News" By ISMAILA CHAFE President Muhammadu Buhari ABUJA- President Muhammadu Buhari has unveiled the redesigned naira notes of N200, N500 and N1000 at the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa Abuja on Wednesday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports the unveiling of the naira notes preceded the virtual meeting of… In "News"