ABUJA – Less than 24 hours to Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections holding across the country, operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Friday intercepted a suspect in Lagos with the sum of N32,400,000 allegedly meant for vote buying. The spokesman of the anti-corruption commission, Wilson Uwujaren, informed that the unnamed suspect was arrested by operatives from its Lagos zonal command and was taken into custody for questioning. The interception, according to him, was a result of the massive operation by the anti-graft agency to deter vote trading and other financial malfeasance ahead of the general election. “The massive operation by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, to deter vote trading and other financial malfeasance ahead of tomorrow’s (Saturday’s) presidential and national assembly elections may have begun paying dividends with the interception in Lagos of the sum of N32, 400,000 (Thirty-two Million, Four Hundred Thousand Naira) allegedly suspected to be used for vote buying in Lagos. The recovery was made by operatives of the Lagos Zonal Command of the Commission. “The suspect involved has been taken into custody for further questioning,” Uwujaren stated. According to the spokesman, EFCC Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa had implored all its personnel deployed in election monitoring duties to show courage and not give room for unscrupulous persons to undermine the integrity of the elections through financial inducement. “Tactical team of operatives are currently on ground in all the states of the federation and the FCT. “Telephone hotlines have already been circulated through social media for members of the public to share information regarding financial malpractices with agents of the Commission. Details of the number are available on EFCC social media platforms,” Uwujaren added. He then encouraged members of the public to report anyone trying to buy or sell votes by making use of the EFCC financial crimes reporting App, Eagle Eye, which is available for download on the Google Play or Apple store. “They can also reach the Commission through our social media handle, @officialefcc or by email, info@efcc.gov.ng.”