By EMMANUEL MOGBEDE  ABUJA- The Nammbo All Progressives Congress (APC) Protection Group has launched a book on strategies which the party and its presidential candidate, Sen. Bola Tinubu, can adopt to win the Feb. 25 presidential election. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the book entitled: “Structures and Strategies for Winning 2023 General Elections” written by Prof. Dahida Philip was launched on Friday in Abuja. Philip said that he was motivated into writing the book because of Tinubu’s developmental antecedents and his plan to create local development authority, if elected as the country’s next president. He recalled that when Tinubu was governor of Lagos for two terms, he created sub-units style of development up to the grassroots level and several local council development areas (LCDAs). The don added that with his leadership style and concept of development, the former Lagos governor would strengthen the government structure in all its ramifications. “Any country that wants to develop its economy must locate its natural and mineral resources in every locality. “So having that aspect redefined and planning to create a local development authority, I believe Tinubu has the political will to bring about development from bottom up. “That was one of the first inspirations that made me to start canvassing votes for him and putting together the book,” he said. Philip explained that the book was aimed at bridging the gap in APC’s plans to win the 2023 general elections. “In every given election, you must have to develop certain strategies and those strategies must be documented. “Haven discovered that there was a gap, I decided to draw a roadmap, clearly starting and bringing some salient features on how to win election,” he said. In his good will message at the event, Minister of Special Duties, Mr George Akume, described Tinubu as a bridge builder, saying he had built many people to become leaders. According to him, Tinubu does not only have the capacity to lead the country, but also has the capability. Dr Tom Ohekere, Head, Media Good Governance Campaign Committee, APC 2023 Independent Campaign Council(ICC), commended Philip for writing the book. He said that though the party was sure of victory in the coming elections, the book would help in improving its chances. Ojekere said the party was confidence of winning the coming elections was put on Tinubu’s developmental antecedents in Lagos and the experience which he would be bringing on board. NAN reports that the 2023 general elections are scheduled to commence on Feb. 25 with the presidential election. (NAN)