ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – Two directors of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Dr. Alhassan Haru and Mr. Efosa Idehen have been respectively redeployed to man the Technical Standards and Network Integrity (TSNI), and the Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement (CME) departments of the Commission in a move to further enhance operational efficiency and sustain regulatory excellence. In an exercise approved by the Executive Vice Chairman of the Commission, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, other senior staff of NCC were moved to head critical departments, following the recent retirement of some directors, who reached the 60 years of age. Dr. Haru, hitherto Director, New Media and Information Security (NMIS), takes over from retiring director Engr Bako Wakil at the TSNI department, which oversees the maintenance of international standards and integrity of the national network, including quality of service (QoS) and equipment type approval. Idehen, who was once the director at CME, returns to a familiar turf where he was nicknamed ‘Efosa, the Enforcer’ after a stint at the Consumer Affairs Bureau (CAB). He takes over from Mr. Ephraim Nwokonneya, who has also commenced his retirement leave. The CME department monitors the industry and enforces compliance with industry rules of engagement. At the Projects Department of the Commission, from where Mrs. Iyabo Sholanke retired, Mr. Philip Eretan, Deputy Director, was appointed Head, while Mr. Kelechi Nwankwo, another deputy director, took over as head, Corporate Planning Strategy and Risk Management, (CPSRM), a position left by erstwhile director, Mr. Felix Adeoye. Dr. Chidi Diugwu, deputy director at NMIS, took over from Haru as head of the department. Mrs. Safiya Jijji has assumed duty as Acting Head, Zonal Operations, following the retirement of the erstwhile director, Mrs. Amina Shehu. Another deputy director, Banji Ojo, takes over from Idehen as Head, CAB. NCC boss, in the redeployment, charged the new appointees to work in tandem with the Commission’s Strategic Management Plan (SMP) 2020-2024 and NCC’s Strategic Vision Implementation Plan (SVP) 2020-2025. The EVC further assured industry stakeholders of the Commission’s determination to provide essential regulatory supports to consolidate on the growth already recorded in the industry. According to him, the NCC will continue to put round pegs in round holes to sustain its operational efficiency and regulatory excellence.