Paris, – ) Lionel Messi scored a stunning free-kick in added time to earn Paris St-Germain (PSG) a 4-3 comeback win over Lille on Sunday. The result lifted them eight points clear at the top of the 2022/2023 French Ligue 1 standings. Hosts PSG started strongly and Kylian Mbappe opened the scoring in the 11th minute with a brilliant piece of individual skill. He ghosted past two opponents and squeezed a shot under goalkeeper Lucas Chevalier. Christophe Galtier’s side doubled their lead when Neymar tapped in a Vitinha cross. But Lille were far from passive, as Bafode Diakite nodded home an Andre Gomes cross to pull one back in the 24th minute. PSG suffered a blow early in the second half when forward Neymar was taken off on a stretcher with a suspected ankle injury. Lille won a penalty kick after Marco Verratti tugged Tiago Djalo’s shirt and Jonathan David coolly converted the kick to level the scores. Lille piled on the pressure and were rewarded when Gomes pinged a long ball into the feet of Jonathan Bamba. He smashed his effort past Donnarumma to give his side the lead. The visitors let their intensity drop, however, and they were punished when Mbappe turned in Juan Bernat’s cross to make it 3-3. Then, Messi’s free-kick five minutes into stoppage time sealed a dramatic victory for PSG.(Reuters/NAN) Neymar By DAVIDSON ABRAHAM, Middle East Paris Saint-Germain football advisor, Luis Campos, says that Neymar Jr. was never for sale and that he hopes Lionel Messi matches his own three-year stay at the Parc des Princes. Campos was the mastermind behind player recruitment that helped AS Monaco to the Ligue… In "Sports" Abuja -   Brazil forward Neymar has denied suggestions that he had problems with his team mates at his club Paris St Germain (PSG). But, more than this denial was his emotions, as he was moved to tears after being given the backing of his national team coach Tite on… In "Sports" Paris Saint-Germain overturned an early deficit to beat 10-man Saint-Etienne 3-1 away in Ligue 1 on Sunday, with Lionel Messi setting up all three goals. The match also featured the long-awaited PSG debut of Spanish defender Sergio Ramos, while Neymar left the pitch weeping in agony, stretchered off with an… In "Sports"