By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former federal lawmaker that represented Kaduna Central senatorial district in the 8th Assembly, Senator Shehu Sani has urged the federal government to take the alleged plot by terror Boko Haram to attack the Abuja-Kaduna train again seriously and beef up security along the rail lines. Shehu Sani who admitted that there is improved security presence however, noted that it was not adequate. His advise is coming against the backdrop of the report by the Department of State Service (DSS) that it has uncovered a plan by Boko Haram terrorists to attack the Abuja-Kaduna train service in the coming days. The former Senator who made the call via his verified Twitter handle @ShehuSani said: “The alleged plot by the terror Boko Haram to attack the Abuja-Kaduna train again should be taken seriously.There is improved security presence but not adequate.The conditions of the train engines need to be checked.” The alleged plot by the terror Boko Haram to attack the Abuja-Kaduna train again should be taken seriously.There is improved security presence but not adequate.The conditions of the train engines need to be checked. Sundiata Post recalls that couple of days ago, the Department of State Service (DSS) said it has uncovered a plan by Boko Haram terrorists to attack the Abuja-Kaduna train service in the coming days. Consequently, the Ministry of Transportation, in a letter to the Ministry of Defence, obtained by Daily Trust on Thursda said it had, on February 1, received a letter from the DSS on the threat by Boko Haram terrorists to attack the Abuja-Kaduna train services. The transportation ministry called on the Minister of Defence, as a matter of urgency, to convene a meeting of all relevant stakeholders to review the reported terror alert with a view to forestalling the planned attack. Further recall that on March 28, 2022, a Kaduna-bound train was attacked by gunmen with several persons killed, injured and abducted.  Reno Omokri has accused President Muhammadu Buhari of covering up for the real terrorists in Nigeria - Boko Haram and their sponsors. The ex-presidential aide made the claim while reacting to the attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train. He pointed out that those who attempted to bomb the Abuja-Kaduna train can’t… In "News" Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Inspector-General of Police, Usman  Baba has ordered the deployment of armed personnel for the commencement of railway services along Abuja-Kaduna route from Monday, December 5th, 2022. This was contained in a statement released by the Force Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi on Sunday. Recall that… In "Top Stories" Senator Shehu Sani has dragged the Northern Governors for speaking against the recent #EndSARS protests against police brutality in the country but has chosen to remain silent after Boko Haram Insurgents murdered at least 110 people in Zabarmari village in northeast Borno state. Among those who were killed in the… In "Politics"