ABUJA – The Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Organisation has alleged that the APC and its presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu, are plotting for election postponement. The PDP PPC spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement on Sunday, claimed that the APC PCC was desperate for postponement of the elections. This, he claimed, was allegedly part “Its design to cause panic, create an atmosphere of political uncertainty, destabilise the electoral process and foist an undemocratic situation on our country”. He said, “The PDP campaign organization has been made aware of how agents of the Tinubu-Shettima campaign, led by a governor of an APC-controlled North West State, were firmly resisted by INEC and other well-meaning prominent personalities in the country in a recent meeting where the Tinubu agents had allegedly gone to canvass for the postponement of the 2023 polls.” The APC, through its spokesman, Felix Morka, faulted claims that the party was putting pressure on the Independent National Electoral Commission and other relevant agencies to shift the 2023 general elections. “The report is blatantly false and reckless, and bears no iota of credibility. Beyond its loud headline, the report offers no substantive justifying content aside from its intended purpose of misleading and causing needless anxiety and speculations regarding the upcoming elections,” Morka was quoted to have said. But Ologbondiyan said, “Apparently frustrated, the Tinubu-Shettima campaign has reportedly increased its pressure on INEC while scaling up its notorious resort to public incitements, incendiary comments wild allegations on the policy with the view to further orchestrate violence and heighten tension to justify its demands for election postponement. “This accounts for recent reckless allegations by some officials of the Tinubu-Shettima campaign, which has also lined up series of false alarms, lies and distortions, with the objective of instilling confusion and insecurity in the polity. “It is clear that Tinubu, having been demystified and having come to the end of his political games in the face of the dazzling popularity of the Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, is now desperate for a face-saving measure, for which his campaign is ready to derail our democratic process. “Nigerians can recall that the Tinubu-Shettima Campaign had in a recent statement officially conceded to Atiku Abubakar’s electoral superiority to Senator Tinubu, wherein it also stated that Atiku Abubakar is well-grounded, more popular and poised to sweep the poll in most states of the country.” What happened Saturday was actually not a postponement due to security or logistical reasons.  What happened was the by-product of overt political interference undermining the independence of the election management body, INEC. The elections were postponed not because they could safely be held.  They were postponed because one man, President… In "News" ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - The All Progressive Congress (APC) has asked the Peoples Democratic Party and its Presidential Campaign’s Director of Media and Publicity Femi Fani-Kayode to produce evidence on their purported claims of oath-taking and resignation of Prof Yemi Osinbajo for national leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in the… In "News" From left: Atiku Abubakar (PDP), Peter Obi (LP) and Kashim Shettima (APC, for Bola Tinubu) ABUJA - The All Progressives Congress presidential candidate, Bola Tinubu was absent on Thursday as presidential candidates of other political parties signed the 2023 election peace pact.   Tinubu’s running mate, Kashim Shettima was, however,… In "Top Stories"