The Labour Party Presidential Candidate, Peter Obi, has urged the people of Kwara State and, indeed, the rest of Nigerians to vote for their future on February 25, 2023. Obi and his campaign train arrived in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital on Monday to the warm embrace of a large crowd of Obidient family singing to him that he is the best as he told the people that a new Nigeria is possible and in their hands. He urged the people to vote for trustworthy persons, not people who have no trace of good records in the past where they were. Addressing the crowd after paying a courtesy call on the paramount ruler of the ancient City of Ilorin, the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Kolapo Sulu Gambari Dan Bawa, Obi charged the people to reject deceit from those who will come with religious and ethnic sentiments because they used it all along to hold the country down. Obi said that over the years, successive governments have been producing insecurity and poverty and making Nigeria one of the poorest nations in the world. He told the people that he and Datti are in the race to build a new and working Nigeria where the people will be United and live in harmony. “Only Datti and I are saying vote for character, vote for competence, they come to you with sentiments of tribe and religion, when they come with those divisive sentiments tell them you have no job, and let them tell you how to get the job” Obi said that Kwara State is among the states in the North he and Datti have mapped out for a great agricultural revolution in line with the consumption-to-production mantra of his manifesto, if elected. “They will come to you with money, to buy your votes but I urge you to collect their money and vote your conscience, vote for competence and capacity, vote for those who will make new Nigeria possible. Collect their money and vote for papa, mama, pickin”, he said. According to Obi, the voters should ask questions, what has umbrella done for us when we voted for them if not corrupt or is it the broom that brought poverty in the land, “this is the time to vote for human beings with the capacity and capabilities to deliver good governance and stabilize our country. The vice presidential candidate, Yusuf Datti Baba Ahmaled, also spoke in this line that he and Obi are coming to give Nigerians sincere leadership away from corruption and deceit.The LP National Chairman, Comrade Julius Abure, told the people that their destiny is in their hands as the party has provided them the rescuers in Obi and Datti and it was left for them to vote them into office.The high point of the rally was a minute silence in honour of the Kwara State Commissioner for Women Affairs, who died recently.Obi also commended the Kwara State Government for providing the facility for the rally, saying it’s in the spirit of a new Nigeria where people will live in peace and concord as brothers and sisters.