By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed has appreciated the sacrifice of the Nigerian Army and troops of the 3 Division, saying that they have laid down their lives for the service of humanity and the country. The Governor said for internal security not to be overrun by terrorists, the Army has done a good job by containing the excesses of insurgents. Bala Mohammed stated this on Wednesday in Bauchi State while playing host to the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 3 Division Nigerian Army and Commander Operation SAFE HAVEN (OPSH), Major General Abdulsalami Ibrahim during a courtesy visit at the Government House. He said rather than criticism, the Army should be commended for keeping vigilance, securing the country against miscreants, charlatans and criminal elements. Speaking in a statement sent to our correspondent by the Acting Deputy Director, Army Public Relations 3 Division, Lieutenant Colonel Ishaku Takwa, the Governor noted that the security of lives and properties remained his top most priority, pledging his continuous support to the security agencies whom he described as the pillars upon which democratic structures are built. Regarding the forthcoming general elections, he urged security agencies to ensure peaceful conduct of the elections, urging them to remain impartial. The statement reads that the GOC informed that the significance of cooperation and support to the security agencies in the wake of security challenges cannot be overemphasized, noting that troops have remained resolute and professional in discharging their roles to contain the challenges. He thanked the government and people of the area for their support that have always given the security agencies victory over the enemies. However, while addressing the troops, General Abdulsalami warned that the soldiers have no business with the elections but to go to their respective pulling units and exercise their franchise. He charged the troops to always remain resolute, dogged and professional in the discharge of their roles. Takwa in the statement had said the GOC was on a familiarization visit to troops locations under his command and had inspected facilities in 301 Artillery Regiment, General Support Gombe, 33 Artillery Brigade Bauchi and also paid courtesy visit to Headquarters Nigerian Army Armoured Corps Bauchi. Gov. Bala Mohammed of Bauchi state has called on all and sundry to continue praying for the country’s fallen heroes and the families they left behind. Mohammed made the call at the 2022 Armed Forces Remembrance day and wreath laying ceremony on Saturday, in Bauchi. According to him, soldiers had… In "News" Bauchi governor, Bala Mohammed, has tested positive for coronavirus. This is according to a release by the Bauchi State government, signed by Senior Special Assistant (Media), Mukhtar Gididado. Details later… Nigerian Tribune In "Top Stories" BAUCHI (Sundiata Post) - Incumbent Governor of Bauchi State, Mohammed Abubakar, has congratulated Senator Bala Mohammed on his emergence as governor-elect in the 2019 gubernatorial election.This is contained in a statement signed by press secretary to the governor, Abubakar Al-Sadique and made available to newsmen on Monday.The statement reads:"I wish… In "Top Stories"