Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Sunday formally opened the 2023 presidential election collation centre at the International Conference Centre in Abuja. INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu opened the collation centre and set certain ground rules for the collation of election results. “The collation centre is hereby declared open until the final announcement of the results of the 2023 presidential election,” he said. Mahmood also said the collation of presidential election results will be done at four levels — first at the 8,889 wards, then at the 774 local government areas, then the Resident Electoral Commissioners at the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory will submit the votes per candidate in Abuja. The electoral chief said the collation centre will be open all day and all night with short breaks. He also cautioned political parties to only draw their figures from INEC and announced that collation from states will resume by 6 pm when results from states would have arrived. Presidential and National Assembly elections were held in the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory in Abuja on Saturday. (Channels) By EMMANUEL OLONIRUHA ABUJA- The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has established committees for National Situation Room and Collation Centre for the 2023 general elections. The commission disclosed this in a statement by its National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Mr Festus Okoye, on Thursday in Abuja.… In "News" ABUJA (Sundiata Post) Amina Zakari, a national commissioner at the Independent and National Electoral Commission (INEC), has been appointed to head the collation centre of the 2019 elections. In the wake of the news, unconfirmed reports have emerged that she is President Buhari's niece, and this doesn't sit well with… In "Social Media Feeds" By Nefishetu Yakubu Benin - Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, National Chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has given assurance that the commission’s collation centre in Edo under construction will be ready before the state’s Sept. 19 governorship election. Yakubu gave the assurance when he visited INEC office in Benin and other… In "Politics"