The paramount ruler of the Tiv nation, Professor JOI Ayatse and Secretary-General of the the Committee of Vice-Chancellors of Nigerian Universities, Professor Yakubu Ochefu have congratulated Prof Isaac Itodo, on his appointment as the new Vice-Chancellor, Joseph Sarwuan Tarka University, Makurdi (JoSTUM). Itodo over the weekend beat 16 other contestants to emerge the seventh vice chancellor of JoSTUM in an announcement made by Hon. Chiding Uwajimogu, Pro-chancellor and Chairman of Council of JoSTUM. The Tor Tiv, JOI Ayatse, was the third vice chancellor of the university. On his part, Ochefu in a congratulatory letter on behalf of Committee of Vice-Chancellors of Nigerian Universities, urged Itodo to bring his wealth of experience to bear and ensure that JoSTUM takes its pride of place in the Nigerian university system. Others who have congratulated Itodo include several of the aspirants who contested with Itodo, and senior members of JoSTUM community, the Engineering and Solar Association family, and the traditional ruler of the host community, HRH Mue Ter Simon Ajo.A former Attorney-General of the Federation and prominent son of Benue State, Chief Kaase Aondakaa, SAN, has also congratulated Professor Itodo. The Chairman of the Committee of Pro-Chancellors of Nigerian Federal Universities, Emeritus Professor Nimi Briggs, has also lent his voice to the congratulatory messages and especially thanked the Pro-Chancellor of JoSTUM, Hon. Chidimma Uwajumogwu, for a successful outcome of the exercise. By NICHOLAS DECHI Governor Samuel Ortom MAKURDI- Gov. Samuel Ortom of Benue, has called on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to extend the deadline of the use of the old naira notes, especially for those in the rural areas. Ortom made his feelings known when the Governing Council and… In "News" Prof. Isaac Itodo MAKURDI (Sundiata Post) - The Governing Council of the Joseph Sarwuan Tarka University, Makurdi, has appointed Prof. Isaac Nathaniel Itodo as the seventh vice chancellor of the university.According to information made available to Sundiata Post on Saturday, Itodo's appointment took effect on Friday, 17 February 2023. He… In "Education" By Nicholas Dechi Appointment Makurdi - The Tiv Area Traditional Council (TATC) has congratulated Sen. George Akume on his appointment and inauguration as the Minister Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs. Mr Freddie Adamgbe, the Media Assistant to the TATC’s Chairman, Tor Tiv, Prof. James Ayatse said this in a statement… In "News"