By CECILIA OLOGUNAGBA  NEW YORK- UN Secretary-General António Guterres says 78 million girls and boys around the world  “don’t go to school at all” because of conflicts, climate disasters and displacements. According to him, tens of million more children receive only sporadic teaching. The UN chief said in a video message on Thursday that no one should be denied the chance to learn. He said this while lending support to the calls for more funding for education in emergencies spearheaded by the UN global fund, Education Cannot Wait (ECW). “A full 222 million children experience blighted education today,’’ Guterres said. He however said 18 countries and private partners have pledged $826 million dollars for ECW, on the opening day of the landmark conference, to help such children. “No matter who you are, no matter where you live, no matter what barriers stand in your way, you have a right to a quality education,” he said, in an appeal for greater international efforts to ensure that more vulnerable children and youngsters get the chance to succeed. Delivering his comments at the Education Cannot Wait High-Level Financing Conference in Geneva, the Secretary-General welcomed the fact that since it was founded in 2017, the fund had trained 87,000 teachers and given education to seven million children in crisis. As pledges from 18 countries and the private sector topped $826 million dollars on the first day of the conference, UN Special Envoy for Global Education and Chair of ECW’s High-Level Steering Group, Gordon Brown, welcomed the international support for learning for all, as an investment in sustainable peace. “We are talking about the most isolated, the most desolate, the most neglected children of the world. “We’re talking about girls who find themselves trafficked or forced into child labour or child marriage, unless we can help them,” Brown said. (NAN) UN Secretary-General António Guterres has urged all countries to do more to put People Living with Disabilities (PLWD) “front and centre” of their post-COVID recovery plans. Guterres made the call at the opening of the Global Disability Summit in Oslo on Wednesday, hosted by the Governments of Norway and Ghana.The… In "News" UNITED NATIONS - More than $4 billion is needed by the end of March to help nearly 20 million people who risk starvation in Nigeria, Somalia, South Sudan and Yemen, United Nations Secretary General Antonio Guterres said on Wednesday. Citing armed conflicts and climate change as part of the reasons… In "Foreign" By Prudence Arobani New York  -   UN Secretary-General António Guterres says South Sudan’s leaders must end the civil war that has killed tens of thousands and displaced millions. Guterres, who made the remarks when he visited South Sudanese refugees in Uganda on the sidelines of the ‘Solidarity Summit’ to… In "Foreign"