By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Obi-Datti Campaign, under the Labour Party, on Sunday clarified that the absence of its Presidential Candidate, Mr Peter Obi, at the presidential debate was as a result of aircraft’s technical challenges. Mr Diran Onifade, Head of Media, Obi-Datti Campaign Council, said this in a statement while explaining Obi’s absence at the presidential debate organised by Nigerian Elections Debate Group (NEDG) in Abuja. The Obi-Datti Campaign hereby states that our candidate, Mr Peter Obi, was unable to attend the debate programme following the advice of the technical crew of the aircraft he was travelling in.After an engagement in Akure, Ondo State, he meant to head for Abuja for the debate but was advised otherwise due to technical issues with the aircraft which made the Pilot decide to head for Lagos instead. “It must be noted that in anticipation of Mr Obi’s arrival, senior members of the campaign and the party had gathered at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, venue of the programme. “They included the Director General of the Campaign, Balogun Akin Osuntokun, Campaign Manager, Ambassador Oseloka Obaze, as well as Labour Party functionaries, including Mrs. Esther Nenadi Usman and Alhaji Audi Mohammed.” Peter Obi ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - The Peter Obi-Datti Campaign Organisation has fumed, saying Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party will no longer show up in debates if his counterparts in other parties do not show up. The Director General of the organisation, Doyin Okupe, stated this,… In "Politics" Mr. Peter Obi and Dr Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed today, Friday in Abuja The unveiling of Dr Datti Baba-Ahmed as Mr Peter Obi’s running mate •Mr Peter Obi (right), Labour Party presidential candidate and his running mate, Dr Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed on Friday in Abuja Senator Datti Baba-Ahmed being congratulated by… In "Top Stories" By FRANCIS ONYEUKWU Mr Peter Obi, Baba Ahmad Datti IDEMILI SOUTH (ANAMBRA)- Chief Joemartins Uzodike, Coordinator, Peter Obi and Yusuf Datti Presidential Campaign Council in Anambra, on Sunday called on all the support groups to begin door-to-door and market campaign for Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party.Uzodike… In "Politics"