Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The National Examinations Council (NECO) has released the 2022 November/ December Senior School Certificate of Examination (SSCE) results, with 57% of candidates scoring five credits and above. The Registrar and Chief Executive, Professor Dantani Wushishi, made the official announcement of the results at the NECO headquarters in Minna on Thursday, saying that a total of 60,133 candidates registered for the examination. Wushishi noted that 33,914 candidates representing 57.36% got five credits and above including English Language and Mathematics. NECO Registrar and Chief Executive, Professor Dantani Wushishi, announcing the release of the result on Thursday, February 16, 2023. He, however, lamented that state governments still owed the council over N3 billion for the SSCE examination in the country. According to him, out of the total registered 53.04% were male while 46.96% were female. The total number that actually sat for the examination was 59,124, he added. NECO Registrar said that 11,419 candidates were booked for various forms of malpractices as against 4,454 in 2021. This was a sequel to the improved strategy and technique adopted by the council. He revealed that four supervisors – one each from Rivers and Plateau states – and two from Ogun State were blacklisted for aiding, abetting, and poor supervision while urging respective candidates to access their results of the NECO website www.neco.gov.ng using their registration number. By Mercy Osajiugo Minna, - The National Examinations Council (NECO), said over 70 per cent of candidates who sat for the 2022 Senior Secondary Certificate Examinations (SSCE) internal made credit in mathematics and English language. The Registrar and Chief Executive Officer of NECO, Prof. Dantani Wushishi, said this while announcing… In "Education" Abuja - Prof. Dantani Wushishi, the Registrar and Chief Executive of the National Examination Council, has said that eight northern states owe the examination body to the tune of N 1.8 billion. Wushishi said this on Saturday while speaking to journalists in Minna, stating that the debt piled up from… In "Top Stories" The National Examinations Council, NECO has released the November/December 2014 [pro_ad_display_adzone id="10"]SSCE results. The Registrar/ Chief Executive of the Council, Professor Promise Okpala, announced the results in Minna yesterday. He said there was a remarkable improvement in the results, adding that 52.94% of the candidates had Credit in English and… In "News"