By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The People’s Democratic Party (PDP), governorship candidate in Plateau State, Barr. Caleb Muftwang has taken his campaign tour to his home town of Mangu Local Government Area of the State, promising to unite the people of Plateau if voted into power in the 2023 March 11th governorship election. Muftwang and his team who made a stop at the traditional ruler’s palace in Mangu, His Royal Highness the Mishkaham Mwaghavul, Da John Hirse Putmang, to pay his respect, assured the monarch of an all inclusive government when voted into power. Pointing out that he is in his home and need not to campaign or sing his own praises among his people, the PDP candidate said he is confident that the people of Mangu will massively deliver their votes to him. Urging the people to reject the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), Muftwang said if the people did not take the God given opportunity in 2023 to vote out APC, the hardship faced will continue unabated. “The PDP under me will provide true leadership and leave a legacy of social justice and service to the people”, he said. Muftwang stated this on Wednesday during a town hall meeting held in Mangu LGA. Addressing a crowd of citizens at the town hall, Muftwang emphasised that security, rural development, physically challenged, health, education, workers, pensions, traders, youth and women are part of his vision for a new Plateau State. flanked by his running mate Mrs. Josephine Piyo at the town hall, the governorship candidate promised to provide the kind of leadership that would be responsive to the needs of the people. Accompanied by the Chairman of the Party, Hon. Chris Hassan the party Chairman said with the support and love shown by the people in all zones visited, he is confident that PDP will take back Plateau in the coming general elections. Hassan said Mutfwang has the intellectual capacity to push the fortunes of the State, adding that he has been tested as a local government Chairman, meaning that he is in touch with the grassroots, Hassan said. On his part, the Director General of the Campaign, Hon. Letep Dabang, said as a former APC chieftain, he helped the APC to win election, and now back to the PDP, God has brought him back to deliver Mutfwang as the next governor of the State. Latep task the people not to make the mistake of voting back the APC, reminding them of the current suffering, lawlessness, insecurity and impunity exhibited by President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Simon Lalong led APC administration. By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Plateau State People's Democratic Party's governorship candidate, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang and his running mate, Josephine Piyo, on Tuesday paid an emotional visit to the 13 families of the truck victims who lost their lives last Saturday while returning from the PDP zonal… In "Top Stories" By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The House of Representative Member (PDP), Plateau State, Hon. Dachung Musa Bagos has flagged off his re-election campaign, promising to improve security, end poverty, and sponsor bills that will ensure the sustenance of improved welfare if voted back to the green Chembers. Bagos,… In "Top Stories" The governorship candidate of the PDP in Plateau, Mr Caleb Mutfwang has suspended all campaign activities due to an accident that claimed the lives of 7 of his supporters. Abraham Yiljap, Director, Directorate of Media and Publicity to the Atiku-MutfwangCampaign Council, Plateau , said this in a statement in Jos… In "News"