By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, has assured his supporters and people of the South-East that his government will turn the region into Nigeria’s industrial hub if elected into office in February 25 election. He also challenged those who turned up at the rally in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital on Friday, and the rest of Nigerians to hold him responsible if a new Nigeria does emerge with him in office. The presidential flag bearer of the Labour Party made these declarations as he takes his campaign trail back to the South-East geopolitical zone after touring most of the Northern states in recent weeks. “Let me assure you, the South-East will become a hub for manufacturing and export. Enugu as our capital will be our gateway, anybody who has to travel overseas will go from Enugu. We will make sure will change Ebonyi State. “This year’s election should not be about tribe, no tribe buys bread cheaper, every tribe is suffering. There is poverty in the North, there is insecurity in the North, Katsina is not secured, and I can tell you we don’t want that anymore. This year’s election will not be about religion, no religion buys food cheaper,” the LP candidate said. The rally which took place at the Pa Oruta Ngele Township Stadium had Labour Party supporters from across the state trooping out to show solidarity for the man they believe will take Nigeria out its predicaments such as insecurity, economic challenges and other negatively affecting the progress of the country. By KINGSLEY CHUKWUKA JOS - Members of the Middle Belt Forum on Wednesday said they chose to pitch tent with former Anambra State Governor, Mr. Peter Obi who is running for president in the 2023 general elections because he is the best material from the South-East. President of the forum,… In "Top Stories" By EMMANUEL MOGBEDE Mr Peter Obi Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, Chairman, Ohanaeze Council of Elders, said the organisaion was in full support of the presidential ambition of Mr Peter Obi, Labour Party 2023 presidential candidate.He said this on Thursday in Abuja while speaking with newsmen at the end of a meeting… In "Politics" Obidients on Saturday ABUJA - Thousands of supporters of Labour Party’s presidential candidate, Peter Obi, staged a peaceful rally in Abuja on Saturday. The pro-Obi supporters marched from the Unity Fountain to the Moshood Abiola National Stadium amid heavy security. At the rally alongside the pro-Obi supporters are officers of… In "Top Stories"