By BENSON EZUGWU ENUGU- The Presidential Candidate PDP, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, has urged electorate in Enugu State to vote for PDP in Presidential election to enjoy democratic dividends from the Federal Government.Atiku said this on Tuesday during his Presidential Campaign Rally in Enugu.The PDP presidential candidate further said that a vote for the party would connect the state to the center and mainstream.He said he was impressed by the massive turnout, adding that it was a pointer that Enugu State was a PDP state.“I am going to be the stepping stone to an Igbo President as I have said before.“I want you to keep supporting the PDP because the next government is going to be formed by the PDP.“I advise you to always be in the mainstream that is where you can always enjoy the dividends of democracy, ” he said.Meanwhile, Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State was conspicuously absent at the rally.Ugwuanyi, who is a member of the Gov. Nyesom Wike led G-5 Governors, was, however, said to have received the presidential candidate at the Government House in his capacity as the former vice president.Dr Iyorcha Ayu, the National Chairman of the party, while speaking, described Enugu State as a PDP state since its inception in 1998.“Enugu is PDP; and PDP is Enugu.“PDP is in your DNA and I believe that on the days of elections on Feb. 25 and March 11, you will vote PDP from the top to bottom and from bottom to the top, ” he said.He advised them not to listen to any other party, adding: “Your destiny lies in PDP”.“I don’t need to preach to you because you are already converted,” he said. (NAN) By Victor Adeoti   Osogbo -  Atiku Abubakar, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Candidate, has said that he is passionate about the restructuring of Nigeria. Abubakar made the remarks during his Presidential campaign on Tuesday in Osogbo. He said he would start the process of restructuring in six months… In "Politics" Onitsha (Anambra) - The Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Abubakar Atiku and his running mate, Mr Peter Obi have vowed to restructure Nigeria for better if elected. They made the vow during a presidential rally held at the Holy Trinity open field, Onitsha on Thursday. Addressing… In "Politics" Enugu - gboezue Cultural Advancement Initiative, a pan-Igbo political and socio-cultural group, has urged Ndigbo to vote massively for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari. The National Leader of Igboezue, Chief Chekwas Okorie, said this in a news conference on the “Stand of the Vast Majority of Ndigbo” on Thursday… In "News"