By Opeyemi Aremu-Gbemiro Ado- Ekiti, – )Nigeria has emerged winner of a two-week competition in the Surajkund International Arts and Crafts Festival, held in India. The event is rated as one of the largest arts and culture festivals in the world. This is contained in a statement from Prof.  Ojo Bakare, a renowned Professor of Choreography and Performance Aesthetics, leader of Nigeria’s delegation at the festival. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nigeria was represented at the competition by Ekiti State Performing Company Ekiti featured in the performance content category while Niger State Tourism Commission took part in Crafts Exhibition. Bakare was also the immediate past Commissioner for Arts, Culture and Tourism in Ekiti State. Nigeria, India, the host country,  and Uganda got the VIP pick for the best performances in the festival that featured more than 50 countries that performed daily for two weeks. The statement noted that as a result of Nigeria’s exemplary performances, Bakare was chosen by leaders of delegation of the African countries to lead an all African collaboration performance at the festival. They also made a declaration for an All African networking organisation that would push for the development of Arts, Culture and Heritage on the continent and selected Bakare as the President. Bakare hailed the Federal Government for tipping Ekiti  State to represent the country at the competition. He also gave kudos to the 15- member troupe and their officials for the superlative performances at the world festival. NAN reports that before Ekiti’s emergence as Nigeria’s representative at the global festival, the state Performing Company came second at NAFEST 2020 in Jos. It also took the first position at NAFEST 2021 and third position at the 2022 edition in Lagos. It equally won the most consistent state at NAFEST 2022. “At NAFEST 2020, 2021 and 2022, Ekiti State came first in almost all the Performing Arts categories like Dance, Choral Music and Drama. ” Niger State was also selected for craft exhibition because Bida had just been named UNESCO Creative City,” the statement said.(NAN)