By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Youths of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Plateau State has said one of their strategy for winning the 2023 presidential elections at all levels is to win votes at each polling units in the State. The Youth leader in the State, Comrade Nanloh Joseph Dashe said if each youth convince at least 30 persons to vote for APC at each polling unit, the totality of votes across the State will translate into winning. Dashe stated this on Wednesday in Jos during an engagement with ward Youths of the APC from the Northern Senatorial zone in Plateau. “After this exercise, 30 vote canvassers will be sent to all the polling units on the Plateau to take the mandate as youths to the electorate to further drum up support for the APC,” he said. Canvassing votes for the Presidential Candidate of the Party, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the youth leader described Tinubu as a detribalised Nigerian, adding that he has mentored quite a lot of youths across tribal and religious lines who are presently contributing their quotas to the development of Nigeria. He urged youths to discard religious and other sentiments and vote for Tinubu, saying he is the only presidential candidate that has the solution to the country’s problems. He added that youths at the moment cannot afford to sit on the fence, charging them to seize the opportunity of the February 25th presidential election to vote for the APC presidential candidate, who has the passion and drive to meet the needs of the youths and create employment for them. “Tinubu has done it before as a governor of Lagos State, where several youths were mentored. Most of those he mentored can be found in various fields of human endeavor, contributing their quotas to the development of Nigeria. “The presidential candidate is familiar with the terrain and will not abandon the youth if voted into power.” He enjoined youths in the party not to relent in their campaign for the presidential candidate and others on the platform of the party and assured them that their labour would not be in vain as they would be adequately compensated. He further narrated that the essence of the sensitization was to mobilize the youths to take the campaign to the polling units and to ensure that the message of the candidate got to the grassroots. “We have done it in the past; everyone knows that Plateau is for APC.” The same sensitization we carried out today will be replicated in other senatorial districts to ensure that those at the grassroots vote for Tinubu and Shettima. APC is not new to Plateau. Also speaking, the executive chairman of Langtang North local government area, Hon. Bitrus Zulfa said the APC-led administration at the center has done well in the past seven years and advised other political parties to take a back seat and allow APC to continue piloting the affairs of the country. He said no Nigerian has impacted positively on fellow Nigerians like Tinubu, adding that his government was a miniature Nigeria where every section of the country was represented and that his political mentorship is worthy of emulation.