Washington DC – Nigerians in the United States who are supporters of the presidential candidate of the Labour Party in Nigeria’s February 25 election, Mr Peter Obi and his running mate, Dr Datti Baba-Ahmed, have literarily overrun Washington DC in their proud “Obidient” uniforms. This is ahead of a mega rally convened by the Professor Eddie Oparaoji-led Nigeria Labour Party, USA Chapter in collaboration with the US based Nigerian-American Coalition for Justice and Democracy (NACJD), the Save Nigeria Group and other Peter Obi support organisations in the United States.The rally takes place on Saturday February 18 (today) at the historic Freedom Plaza, opened in 1980, in honour of Martin Luther King Jr., as part of the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation’s (PADC) plan to transform Pennsylvania into a ceremonial route connecting the US Capitol to the White House. According to the theme of the rally the “Obidients” will be collectively demanding free, fair, and credible elections in Nigeria, and will threaten global sanctions on any entities that frustrates the will of the Nigerian electorate. In a statement issued on the eve of the mega rally, NACJD said, “In the last 24 years, the ruling political class has failed to meet the needs of average Nigerians. The denials, the corruption, the impunity, and the crass recklessness have come to a head. There’s trouble everywhere! “No generation has got it worse than millions of today’s Nigerian youths. The economic and security situation worsened under the watch of politicians who benefit from Nigeria the most.” “Therefore, the unprecedented turnout of young people preparatory to the forthcoming General Elections shows that Nigerians have had enough and desire sustainable change. “Indeed, the future of Nigeria – her continued corporate existence; and the lives of her 200 million citizens appears to depend on a free and fair February 2023 presidential elections. “Professor Mahmood Yakubu-led Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) must be inviolable. INEC and the security agencies must guarantee that no Nigerian is harassed or intimidated either by thugs or security personnels working for any politician or political party. “Nigeria needs a physically, mentally, and emotionally healthy President. One with no criminal or corruption record anywhere in the world and one with a clear message of how to unite and rescue every part of Nigeria.” “Those who plan to disrupt this election must stop. If you do it, we will invoke every legal means against you and your family should you step out of Nigeria. We will never allow you and your family to suppress Nigerians and run to the West to enjoy democratic gains.” “We call on all Nigerians to go out enmasse to vote for a New Nigeria, where every citizen will enjoy the gains of democracy! It is now or Never!” Comments from Obidients were unanimous echoing the official NACJD statement. According to the rally agenda, there will be speeches and entertainment, by local and international participants.