By Ibironke Ariyo Abuja, – The Comptroller General, Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) Isah Jere, has approved the immediate reposting of 41 senior officers ahead of the Presidential and National Assembly elections. The Public Relations Officer (SPRO) of the service, Comptroller of Immigration (CI), Tony Akuneme, said this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja. Akuneme said the redeployment affected 11 Assistant Comptrollers General (ACGs) in charge of the various zones as well as 30 Comptrollers posted to new states. “The states affected were mainly those that bordered Nigeria with neighbouring countries, such as Yobe, Adamawa, Sokoto, Katsina, Zamfara, Oyo, Lagos (Seme Border) and Cross River states. “Other states that are getting new Comptrollers include: Gombe, Kaduna, kano, Plateau, Bauchi, FCT, Nassarawa, Edo, Bayelsa, Rivers (Marine Command), Anambra and Enugu, among others,” he said. The NIS spokesman said all the deployments were with immediate effect, adding that the CG placed a very high premium on the critical role of his personnel towards the success of the forthcoming general elections.(NAN) By PHILOMINA ATTAH ABUJA- The Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) has approved the redeployment of 69 senior officers to zones and commands formations across the country.The Comptroller General, NIS, Mr Isah Jere, approved the postings in a statement by the Service’s Public Relations Officer (SPRO), Mr Amos Okpu, on Wednesday in… In "Metro" By Suzzy Tolofari Abuja  -   The Comptroller-General of Customs, retired Col. Hameed Ali, has approved the redeployment of eight Assistant Comptrollers-General and 238 Deputy Comptrollers to strengthen the service’s operations in 2017. The Deputy Public Relations Officer, Mr Joseph Attah, announced this in a statement on Tuesday in Abuja.… In "News" Abuja - The Acting Comptroller-General of Customs, Dr. John Atte, has approved the redeployment of five customs comptrollers. [pro_ad_display_adzone id="70560"] The redeployment is contained in a statement issued by Mr. Joseph Attah, the service Deputy Public Relations Officer, on Tuesday in Abuja. The statement listed them as Amade Abdul from… In "News"