By CHRISTIAN OGBONNA ABAKALIKI- Mr Igwe Edeze, Director General of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Campaign Group in Ebonyi, says the state needs a governor with fear of God and human feeling in the forthcoming general elections. Edeze told the News Agency Nigeria (NAN) in Abakaliki on Thursday that only individuals with such heart could efficiently ensure dividend of democracy at the grassroots. He advised that Ebonyi would be better with the candidature of Dr IfeanyiChukwuma Odii, whom he described as “capacity and people’s candidate”. “We need to give the governor to someone, who has a human face, human feeling and not someone that can come and destroy our dear state. “We need someone that can build the state for the interest of our grand children. “I am somebody that likes to follow God’s direction and that is why, I moved to support Odii because I saw the hands of God working for him. This is why he won over 50 matters brought against him in the court,” Edeze assured. Odii is a young man, who have become a humanitarian human being. “He has built over 150 houses free of charge for the widows and homeless across the 13 local government areas of Ebonyi state through his foundation, “Ebele and AnyiChuks”. “Odii, otherwise known as AnyiChuks, has priority for human capital development. So, there is need to vote him for a better Ebonyi, come the general elections. “I have seen the hand of God working for AnyiChuks to become the governor of Ebonyi state. I am calling on everyone to come together to save our state,” he added. On the campaign activities, Edeze said that PDP is ready for victory and urged supporters to keep the flag flying. “PDP presidential rally in the state was successful; we thank God and the party will not relent until victory is assured. “Our party condemned hate speech and violence campaign and we do not like any of our members to engage in such act. “PDP campaign will continue to focus only on issues and then, we move forward,” the DG promised. (NAN)