By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Son of the acclaimed winner of 1993 presidential election, Adul-lafeef Kola Abiola has said he is confident of winning the February 25th Presidential Elections. Abiola built his confidence on the fact that he has campaigned using the grassroots method which hinges on town hall meetings across the 36 States of the federation. Abiola, who is the presidential candidate of Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) stated this in Jos on Monday during his Presidential rally. Pledging to restore good governance in Nigeria if elected president, Abiola urged his supporters to shun old politicians who had brought the ills experienced in the country today. According to him, absence of good governance is responsible for insecurity, poor economy and inaccessible education in the country. He explained that his party will deploy local surveillance to restore insecurity. “Fighting with arms and ammunition cannot win war against insecurity, community heads must be involved as they run checks on who comes into the community and his mission. That will solve the problem. “A PRP government will return power to the local governments in the country as doing that will curb crimes and bring about the needed grassroots development, therefore, the party needs State Assemblies to dismantle the fraud called, local governments joint accounts. “Under a PRP government, the physically challenged and women will receive rapt attention because PRP intends to evolve a policy that will attend to the needs of those classes of human beings. While condemning the failure of the APC-led government to fulfill the promise it made to Nigerians, Abiola assured that if elected he will rekindle the 1993 hope his late father started 30 years ago. By TAIYE AGBAJE Mr Kola Abiola, Mrs Patience Ndidi Key ABUJA- A female presidential aspirant, Patience Ndidi Key, has urged a Federal High Court, Abuja to nullify the June 5, primaries that produced Kola Abiola as the People’s Redemption Party (PRP)’s presidential candidate.Key, in the originating summons marked FHC/ABJ/CS/1001/2022, also prayed… In "Politics" By NAOMI SHARANG ABUJA- Mr Kola Abiola   has emerged the 2023  presidential candidate of the Peoples’ Redemption Party (PRP).He  won  against  Usman Bugaje, Patience Key and Col. Gboluga Mosugu (rtd) to pick the PRP ticket.Abiola, is the first child of  late  Chief M.KO Abiola, acclaimed winner of the June 12,… In "Politics" By MOSES KOLO KADUNA- Presidential candidate of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Mr Kola Abiola, has promised to restore the fortune and aspirations of Nigerians, if elected president in 2023. Abiola made the promise while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday during a novelty football match… In "Politics"