By MATEEN BADARU LAGOS- The Grassroot Mobilization For APC President BAT/Shetti Nationwide (GMP) has called for unity among supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to ensure Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu becomes the President of Nigeria. The group made the call during the 8th Edition of Special Annual Prayer For The Next President Of Nigeria and For The Nation. The annual prayer was hosted by the Muslim Affairs Directorate of the APC Independent Campaign Council (ICC). GMP President, Otunba Abdul Fatai Adegbuyi, said: “The group has made it her responsibility to be praying for the incoming President which by the special grace of God will be Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “This is the 8th Edition which is to show gratification for what God had done by actualising our vision. “It is now left to us to unite, be dedicated to achieve the common aim of making Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” The speaker of the day, Sheikh Muyideen Ajani Bello, also said that he was more scared of the supporters of APC than the elections itself. Bello urged the people to shun backbiting and focus on the aim of the group which is making sure the candidates of the party emerge winner in the coming elections. “We need to unite, a win for one is a win for all. Our faith is in our hands, it is now left for us to take Asiwaju to that place that we want him to be. “What is worth doing at all is worth doing well. We should be dedicated and focused. Asiwaju’s achievements stands out, everyone has been clamoring for it at the Federal level and he will eventually get there,” he said. Bello further commended the ICC D-G, Mr Tayo Ayinde, for his efforts and prayed for the victory of Tinubu/Shettima and Sanwo-olu/Hamzat. Ayinde also commended the group and the cleric for the prayer and his words of advice. Ayinde further urged members to take note of the advice and share with others so that the collective aim of making Tinubu the next president materialises. (NAN)