By Patience Yakubu Kaduna, – A 40-year-old man Usman A. Usman was arraigned on Tuesday, at a Kaduna High Court, for allegedly obtaining the sum of N10 million under false pretence. Usman is being prosecuted by the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) on two-count charge of obtaining money under false pretence and fraud. The EFCC, Prosecuting counsel, E. K. Garba, told the court that sometimes in July 2022 the defendant under false pretence and with intent to defraud, obtained the sum of N10 million from one Saleh Yusuf through the medium of a contract to supply tricycles. The prosecutor stated that after collecting the money, the defendant refused to supply the tricycles or the return the money. Garba added that the defendant ran to an unknown destination and all efforts made by the complainant to get his money back proved abortive. He said the defendant committed an offence contrary to section 1 (1) (a) & (c) of the Advance Fee Fraud Act 2006. Consequently, upon the reading of the charge and the defendant’s not guilty plea, the prosecutor asked the court to remand the defendant pending the trial and determina­tion of charge. However, counsel to the defendant, Auwal Sarki, told the court that he had a bail application filed on behalf of the defendant and same had been served on the prosecution. He urged the court to allow him to move the application. The judge, Justice Dairus Khobo after listening to the application granted the defendant bail in the sum of N3million with two sureties in like sum. Khobo ordered that each surety must reside within the court’s jurisdiction and must in addition, own a landed property. He further held that the sureties must be gainfully employed and must show evidence of two years tax payment to the Kaduna State Government. The judge adjourned the case until March 16 for hearing. (NAN) By Raji Rasak Badagry (Lagos State), - A 49-year-old man, Solomon Usu, was on Tuesday docked before a Badagry Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State, for allegedly obtaining N1.2 million under false pretence. Usu, whose address was unknown, is facing a two-count charge of obtaining money under false pretences and stealing.… In "Metro" Instagram big boy and socialite, Ismailia Mustapha aka Mompha who was arraigned for money laundering by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), has been granted a N200 million with two sureties in the like sum on Tuesday, January 18. As part of conditions for bail, Justice Mojisola Dada of… In "News" By Raji Rasak   Badagry     -       The Police on Wednesday docked a 36-year-old man, Lateef Afolabi, at a Badagry Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State for allegedly obtaining money by false pretence. Afolabi is facing a three-count charge of stealing, obtaining by false pretence and breach of public peace. The Prosecutor,… In "Metro"