By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Coalition of Support Groups of the All Progressives Congress APC in Taraba state have called on the Presidential candidate of the APC Senator Hola Ahmed Tinubu to suspend his planned visit to the state pending the resolution of issues within the party. Mr. Ibrahim Sani, Leader of the coalition who made the call on Monday at a press briefing in Jalingo said that the coalition has distanced themselves from the just conducted gubernatorial primary election that produced Senator Emmanuel Bwacha as the candidate of the party in the state. He alleged that the gubernatorial primary election just conducted was in violation of the Supreme Court judgement invalidating the ruling of the Federal High Court which earlier directed the party to conduct a fresh primary within 14 days. Sani said that the coalition has decided to work with the new acting Chairman of the party in the state Mr James Amadu and urged all party faithfuls to stay calm and remain focused. “We are advising the presidential candidate of our great party Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his running mate, Kashim Shettima to suspend their impending visit to Taraba State until the seeming confusion and uncertainty are corrected in other to have a successful visit to the State. “We also want to dissociate ourselves from the kangaroo congress said to have been conducted to elect the gubernatorial candidate for the party in spite of the boycott by the five aggrieved gubernatorial aspirants of the party namely: Sen. Yusuf A. Yusuf, Hon. Engr. Sale Mamman, Chief David Sabo Kente, Mr. Irimiya Kifasi and Sen. Anthony Manzo, who had earlier addressed a press conference in Abuja distancing themselves from any primary election as one of them Sen. Yusuf A. Yusuf stillhas a pending undecided case at the Supreme Court in respect of the same matter. “The purported primary election was supervised by a team of military officers who masquerade as democrats to frighten law abiding party faithfuls. We are therefore passionately appealing to the National Chairman of our Great Party (APC) Sen. Dr. Abdullahi Adamu, the APC National Working Committee and the presidential candidate of the Party Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and his running mate Sen. Kashim Shettima to quickly wade into the matter with a view to righting the wrongs and correct the seeming confusion before things go out of hands. “The group has so thrown it’s full support at the recent change of baton which show the removal of the former state Chairman of the Party Barr. IbrahimTukur El-Sudi. In fact this was one of our earlier prayers when we kicked against the seeming injustice and illegality foisted on us in the last state APC congresses to elect officials of the party which were not held. “While we assure of our unflinching support and loyalty to the leadership of the party at all times to deepen democracy and to ensure a resounding victory of the party in the forthcoming general elections, “Finally we call on all APC supporters inthe State to remain calm and be law abiding as we vow to ensure justice and fair play in the conduct of the partyaffairs, more so as the chances of the party in the coming general election remain bright” Sani said. Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, APC presidential candidate JALINGO - The internal crisis rocking the Taraba State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has deepened with the postponement of its presidential rally scheduled for today, Monday, 13 February for the third time in a roll. The rally was abruptly was called… In "Politics" By MUSTAPHA YAURI Senator Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu ZARIA- Tinubu /Shettima Coalition for Good Governance, a political group, says Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) deserves Northern support as pay back for his numerous goodwill to the region.Dr Adebayo Shittu, former Minister of Communications and leader… In "Politics" By WANDOO SOMBO Senator Emmanuel Bwacha ABUJA- The Federal High Court, Abuja has nullified the All Progressives Congress, (APC) primary election that produced Sen. Emmanuel Bwacha as its governorship candidate for the 2023 general election.Justice Obiora Egwuatu who delivered the judgment declared that based on submissions made before him by… In "Politics"