….Urges INEC And Nigerian Leaders to stop Pushing Nigeria To the Somali Crossroads Of No Return By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Group under the auspices of Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition has lamented that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will be fanning the embers of permanent goodbye to “united and peaceful” Nigeria if the ongoing widespread poll result manipulations are declared. According to the group, the widespread result manipulations across the country came in form of re-writing of results, massive thumb-printing of same in secret official quarters and hotels among others. The group therefore reminded INEC and Nigerian Leaders that the Nigeria’s 2023 Presidential Election is an “electoral tsunami revolution” and last hope of Nigeria and Nigerians. It is also the last gum that binds what remains of “Nigeria” if gotten right? She said. This was the position of the Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition, Enugu as contained in a statement signed by eight officers of the group. The statement reads in full: NEC And Nigerian Leaders In A Nadir Of Pushing Nigeria To Somali Crossroads Of No Return Perfecting the ongoing widespread electoral irregularities by the Independent National Electoral Commission and its conspiratorial CSOs and desperate politicians in APC and others and announcing them as “the 2023 Presidential Election Final Results” with declaration of Ahmed Bola Tinubu as a ‘winner’ will not be a surprise to Nigerians as this is not the first of its kind under the present INEC since 2015. That is to say that INEC and Nigerian Leaders are known for roguish declaration of a wrong or a looser candidate and issuance of “Certificate of Return” to him and facilitation of his swearing in as “elected President of Nigeria”. INEC and Nigerian Leaders have also earned notoriety in getting the compromised and tainted men and women in the Temple of Justice to legitimize such armada of electoral fraud at the two-step electoral courts or Court of Appeal and Supreme Court. Therefore, to perfect the ongoing widespread result manipulations across the country including re-writing of results, massive thumb-printing of same in secret official quarters and hotels in Imo State, etc and using the criminal services of hired INEC ICT and thumb-printing experts to perfect and upload such criminal results on INEC servers and have them declared with a criminal winner emerging, is one thing but containing and curtailing the accompanying short term, medium term and long term devastating consequences is another. The Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition is therefore warning INEC and Nigerian Leaders that they are in a nadir of pushing Nigeria and Nigerians at Somali crossroads of no return and complex uncertainties. Expertly and predictably speaking, declaration of a wrong candidate as “the 2023 Presidential Election winner” will permanently blow off what remains of Nigeria and plunge the country into speedy or gradual pieces. INEC and Nigerian Leaders are hereby strongly reminded that the Nigeria’s 2023 Presidential Election is an “electoral tsunami revolution” and last hope of Nigeria and Nigerians. It is also the last gum that binds what remains of “Nigeria” if gotten right. INEC Stinks And Fumbles From Digital To Typewriter The Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition has observed that Nigeria’s INEC is incurably stinking and has wobbled and fumbled from digital to typewriter. Nigerians can now see the “magic work, speed and efficiency of BVAS” under INEC midwifery. Emptiness and noises by INEC Chairman within and across borders have been brought to the fore regarding the “workability and speediness” of BVAS and IReV technologies and “their zero tolerance for poll rigging”. The trademarks of the 2023 Presidential Poll have remained widespread multiple, alien and underage voting, massive thumb-printing of ballot papers in restricted places and criminal uploading by criminal INEC ICT experts of fake results on INEC servers; with “2023 Ekiti Presidential Results reportedly bearing “20th Feb 2023” as date of their uploading on INEC servers as a clear case in point. Part of the 2023 Presidential Poll trademarks is the shutdown and inaccessibility to INEC servers. The emptiness and noises of INEC top heads including its Chairman and National Commissioner for Voter Education regarding the “BVAS-aided fastest collation and announcement of the 2023 Presidential results in the history of Nigeria” have been brought to the fore. As a matter of fact the Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition sees no difference between the widely rigged 2019 Presidential Poll and that of this 2023. Like that of 2019 that took INEC whopping four days to perfect their rigging arrangements and announcement of the “final results”, same situation is taking place as three days down the line, the results of the 2023 Presidential Poll are still hanging in the air; thereby putting the country at the crossroads of uncertainties. INEC Is Threatening Nigeria With Permanent Goodbye To “United And Peaceful Nigeria” It is the expert and predictable position of the Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition that if the ongoing widespread result manipulations of 2023 presidential poll results, as clearly evidenced by INEC server manipulation and basket-load of reports of widespread changing of original results and fixing of fake results and uploading of same to fill up those areas without voting or with inconclusive voting as well as massive underage and alien voting in Kano, Katsina, Kaduna, Jigawa, Kebbi, Sokoto, Zamfara, Borno, Bauchi, Yobe, Adamawa and Niger States (Nigeria’s 12 notorious presidential poll rigging Northern States), etc are declared by INEC as “2023 Presidential Election Final Results” with a wrong candidate as “the winner”, it is mostly correct to say that INEC and Nigerian Leaders have bade the country and its citizens “a permanent bye-bye to “united and peaceful Nigeria” embryonically and substantively. Signed For: Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition, Enugu /s E. Umeagbalasi Emeka Umeagbalasi, M.Sc. Board Chair, Intersociety Convener, Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition /s A. E. Attah Aloysius Emeka Attah Chair, South-East CLO /s J.C. Chukwuokolo Prof Jerry Chukwuokolo Deputy Convener, Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition /s C.Umeche Chinwe Umeche Esquire Head of Democracy, Intersociety /s C. Udegbunam Chidinma Udegbunam Esquire Head of Publicity, Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition /s Z. Offoelue Comrade Zulu Ofoelue CLO Chair, Enugu State/Member, Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition /s U. Igboeli Uju Igboeli Esquire Principal Officer, Intersociety and Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition /s I.Nwandu Ikenwoke Nwandu Principal Officer, Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition /s C. Ezekweike Chekwube Ezekweike Esquire Principal Officer, Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition /s A. Okoli Anayo Okoli Board Member, Intersociety Principal Officer, Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition /s C.N. Bernard Ndidiamaka Bernard Esquire Principal Officer, Intersociety and Eastern Democracy and Human Rights Coalition /s V. Ezekwueme Comrade Vincent Ezekwueme Chair, Anambra CLO. Abaji (FCT)  -  The candidates of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Saturday differed over the credibility of the council polls in Abaji Area Council. While the PDP candidates alleged some discreet manipulations in favour of the APC, saying it could affect the outcome of… In "Politics" …Denying PDP Agents of Accreditation Tags The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) alerts that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is hoarding the presidential and senatorial elections result sheets for undisclosed reasons. The party also alerts that PDP agents are being denied the INEC accreditation and identification cards, ostensibly to shut… In "Politics" …Demands Prosecution of INEC Chairman By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says that the fresh revelation in the European Union (EU) report has further vindicated the PDP and millions of Nigerians, in our position that the February 23… In "News"