Dear Governor Nasir Elrufai, In the normal course of events, this would have been an engagement on marking down your last 100 days as Governor of Kaduna, Nigeria’s third-largest state. However, your sudden love for the masses and the rule of law against your customary disdain for the masses and penchant for picking and choosing what laws to obey; makes this letter imperative. Gloria BallasonOver the last two weeks, you have struggled hard to stop the redesign of Nigeria’s currency. What you are doing is neither random nor incidental. True, Nigerians are undergoing an unprecedented scenario of cash and money crunch and citizens are having to buy the naira with naira. Difficult as the situation is, your intervention is not without purpose; it is in the course to executing a plan – a plan to ensure your presidential candidate monies himself into governance. In furtherance to your plan you hope to conscript the people of Kaduna state as your foot soldiers against the Federal Republic of Nigeria- now that is downright dangerous! You have not only thumped the President in the chest, you have also trampled under foot the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which enshrines currency, coinage and legal tender as the 15th item under the exclusive legislative list. This is a grave offence against public order. On the 6th of February, 2023, you wrote about fifth columnist that do not mean well for Nigeria. The problem is, you appear not to see that you are what you described. Indeed, there are none so blind than those who would rather not see. You seem to ignore how volatile elections are in Nigeria and how your actions at heating the polity at this moment is a terrible idea. During the 2019 elections, you carried out the same experiment in Kaduna when you trumped up a story of 66 Fulanis being killed in Kujama, a story the State Commissioner of Police denied. You have now moved your antics to the national space and you are pitching your ploy against a Supreme Court ruling in a matter that is purely an executive prerogative. Separation of powers exists for good cause- the cause of democracy. The people of Kaduna State and Nigerians have laboured under the yoke of the present administration. The democratic train is fast moving to February 25, 2023 (in 8 days), it will be in your own interest to jump off the rail track. You have recently been all about your lovey-dovey affection for ‘talakawas’; which of them do you refer to? For the avoidance of doubt, here is a summary of your score sheet in the talakawa and governance business: interview-why-i-paid-herdsmen-to-stop-southern-kaduna-bloodshed-el-rufai-the-gov/https://punchng.com/just-in-bandits-attack-kaduna-communities-security-operatives-feared-killed/?amp; http://httpwww.thisdaylive.com/index.php/2017/04/06/apc-zonal-chairman-accuses-el-rufai-of-demolishing-house-over-political-differences/amp/ The verdict of Nigeria’s Senate is that you are not a fit and proper person to occupy public office. https://www.vanguardngr.com/2018/03/952809/amp/; https://dailytrust.com/why-el-rufai-should-not-hold-public-office-dantiye/ At this point, My dear Governor, it should immediately be clear to you, that you are already known for who you are rather than the overnight self-acclaimed activist for the masses you seek to make yourself out to be. Let Democracy Thrive and Get Thee Off the Way. •Ballason is the Chief Executive Officer of House of Justice and Principal Partner MIVE LEGALS Governor Nasir el-Rufai ABUJA - Even as President Muhammadu Buhari has granted the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) approval to extend the deadline for the old naira notes to cease to be a legal tender, Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna has blamed Buhari for giving approval for the naira redesign… In "Top Stories" By BABAJIDE BALOGUN The All Progressives Congress Presidential Campaign Council, worried by the fate awaiting its presidential candidate at the 2023 elections, is in disarray. They are firing aimlessly in all directions, hoping that they will succeed in truncating the will of Nigerians if their man can not have his… In "Opinion" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Supreme Court has temporarily halted the move by the Federal Government to ban the use of the old naira notes from February 10, 2023. A seven-member panel led by Justice John Okoro halted the federal government plan in a ruling in an… In "Top Stories"