By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Governor of Abia State, Okezie Ikpeazu, has paid a condolence visit to the family of a former Vice Chancellor of the Abia State University and the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the governorship election in the state, Prof Uche Ikonne, who died recently. Describing the death as shocking, Ikpeazu, who was accompanied by his wife, Nkechi, regretted that all human efforts made to save Ikonne proved abortive. According to a statement on Wednesday by his Chief Press Secretary, Onyebuchi Ememanka, the governor said the former vice chancellor was a good and fearless man. The statement read in part, “Governor Ikpeazu expressed the hope that a glorious life awaits him hereafter and urged his wife, who is the State Solicitor General and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Justice, Uzoamaka Ikonne, his first son, Dr Chike Uche-Ikonne, family members and others affected by the death to take heart. The governor said that his love, vision and dream for a better Abia led him to Prof Uche Ikonne as a worthy successor from May 29, 2023, because of his forthrightness, courage, record of service, experience and dedication to Abia State. “Responding on behalf of the family, the first son of the deceased, Dr Chike Ikonne, thanked the governor for identifying with his family in their moment of grief and for the role he played in ensuring that their father lived, stressing that they have accepted the misfortune as the will of God. “The governor later signed the condolence register before leaving the residence.” By IHECHINYERE CHIGEMERI-UWOM •Professor Uche Ikonne UMUAHIA- Former Vice Chancellor of the Abia State University, Uturu, Prof. Uche Ikonne, has emerged the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2023 general elections.The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Ikonne was elected at the party’s primary election… In "Politics" Late Prof Uchenna Ikonne ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - Prof Uchenna Ikonne, Abia State PDP gubernatorial candidate, is dead. He died in Abuja after a brief illness. A statement issued by his son, Dr. Uche-Ikonne Ekezie, said he died today (25 January 2022) at the National Hospital, Abuja. The full statement… In "Top Stories" By IHECHINYERE CHIGEMERI-UWOM Governor Okezie Ikpeazu UMUAHIA- Gov. Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia, says the development of the Southeast geopolitical zone remains a product of shared responsibility between the citizens and the government.Ikpeazu said this on Tuesday during  the Okezie Victor Ikpeazu Leadership Colloquium at his countryhome in Umuobiakwa, Obingwa Local… In "News"