ABUJA – Mrs Aisha Buhari, the First Lady of Nigeria, has said hackers were responsible for the fake Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) notice on the old naira notes which was shared on her official social media handles. Earlier on Tuesday, the president’s wife shared a statement purportedly issued by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) extending the validity of old N200, N500 and N1,000 notes to May 1, 2023. The fake release purportedly issued by the Director of Communications, Osita Nwanisobi, stated that the CBN gave the directive on Tuesday, February 21 after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari. “Due to the current and unpleasant situation in Nigeria, in line with Mr. President, after having a closed meeting with him on the 20th of February, 2023, Central Bank of Nigeria has been directed to only reissue and recirculate the old N200, N500 and N1,000 banknotes and this is expected to circulate as legal tender for 70 days up to May 1, 2023. “Members of the public should therefore continue to spend the old notes,” the statement read. While reacting, the CBN in a statement signed by Edward L. Adamu Deputy Governor, Corporate Services and Osita Nwanisobi Director, Corporate Communications, dismissed the report. The statement reads, “The attention of the Central Bank of Nigeria has been drawn to some fake and unauthorized messages quoting the CBN as having authorized the Deposit Money Banks to collect the old N500 and N1,000 Banknotes. For the avoidance of doubt, and in line with Mr. President’s broadcast of February 16, 2023, the CBN has been directed to ONLY reissue and recirculate the old N200 banknotes and this is expected to circulate as legal tender for 60 days up to April 10, 2023. Members of the public should therefore disregard any message and/or information not formally released by the Central Bank of Nigeria on this subject. “Media practitioners are advised to PLEASE verify any information from the correct sources before publication.” However, Aisha Buhari in a statement issued later said she has directed her aides to immediately delete the fake notice. She further said that the criminal action was taken by individuals who were also responsible for deleting quite a number of posts since 2018 to late last year on her social media handles. The statement reads, “It has come to my attention that a certain fake news was posted on my social media handle, Instagram which also directly connects to my Facebook page, earlier this morning. I have since directed that it should be deleted. “This is without a doubt the criminal actions of the person(s) who were responsible for deleting quite a number of my posts since 2018 to late last year when I posted a video and picture of my hands with Henna design of ABAT insignia on the day I launched the APC Women Presidential Campaign Committee forBola Ahmed Tinubu in Ilorin, Kwara State, my post on the event for the Traditional and Complementary Alternative Medicine (TCAM) conference and 17 other posts. “This person is a hacker, criminally minded with the intention to continue attacking my reputation through my social media platforms. “But I am assuring you that this is the first and last I am disclaiming fake news on my handle. It is the responsibility of the security agencies to find out who am I sharing my social media handles with, despite being verified accounts, and take all necessary actions.” Mrs Aisha Buhari ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has debunked the fake news posted on the verified Instagram and Twitter handles of the First Lady of Nigeria, Mrs Aisha Buhari. The fake news posted on the two social media handles of the First Lady on Tuesday… In "Top Stories" President Muhammadu Buhari ABUJA - Following the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari that Nigerians should take old N500 and N1000 notes to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), many thronged offices of the apex bank across the nation on Friday. As early as 1am, people had lined up in front… In "News" By LYDIA NGWAKWE LAGOS- The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) says only N200 old notes are to be reissued and circulated concurrently with the new notes in line with the directives of President Muhammadu Buhari. The bank restated this in a statement jointly signed by Mr Edward  Adamu, Deputy Governor,… In "News"