By Peter UwumarogieGombe, – The police in Gombe State on Saturday confirmed an attack on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)’s ad hoc staff camped at the Tudunwada Primary School, in Gombe metropolis. Mr Oqua Etim, the Commissioner of Police in Gombe confirmed the attack in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Gombe on Saturday. ”They were attacked by suspected hoodlums. It is very unfortunate, the ad hoc staff moved with materials ahead  of the security personnel. That was the mistake they  made. “They were trying to settle in before other colleagues who were to go with the security team from INEC office. “Unfortunately the hoodlums took advantage of that. We have taken steps to ensure that such situation doesn’t occur again. “This has never happened. We planned that as they leave the INEC office as a team, they will be escorted to their various locations.” All attempts made to get INEC’s reaction on the matter failed. All calls made to INEC Public Affairs Officer in the state, Mohorret Bigun, were not returned as at the time of filing this report. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that suspected hoodlums also stole cell phones, back packs and power banks.(NAN) ABUJA - The management of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) on Tuesday said no corps member was killed on election duty in the recent attacks by insurgents in Gombe State. This is contained in a statement signed by NYSC’s Director of Press and Public Relations, Mrs Bose Aderibigbe, and… In "News" GOMBE - The Independent National Electoral Commissioner (INEC) on Monday said that it needed [pro_ad_display_adzone id="10"]more than 11,000 ad-hoc staff for the conduct of the 2015 general elections in Gombe. The INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state, Alhaji Kassim Gana-Gaidam, made this known in an interview with the… In "News" By Hajara Leman Gombe   -    The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said it had deployed 450 ad hoc staff in Gombe for Saturday’s House of Assembly bye-election in Dukku North constituency. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state, Alhaji Umar Ibrahim, made this known in Gombe on… In "News"