ABUJA – National Universities Commission (NUC), has ordered the closure of universities across the nation to enable students to participate in the 2023 general elections In a letter addressed to vice chancellors of all universities and directors of inter-university centres, the NUC noted that the directive was based on the directive of the minister of education, Adamu Adamu. “As Vice Chancellors of all Universities and Directors/Chief Executives of Inter-University Centres are quite aware the 2023 General Elections have been scheduled to hold on Saturday 25th February 2023, for the Presidential and National Assembly, and Saturday 1st March 2023 for Gubernatorial and State Assembly, respectively. “In view of the foregoing and concerns expressed on the security of staff, students and properties of the our respective institutions, the Honourable Minister of Education, Mal. Adama damu has, following extensive consultations with the relevant security agencies, directed that all Universities and Inter-University Centres be shut down and academic activities be suspended between 22 February and 14th March, 2023. “Consequently, Vice-Chancellors and chief executives of inter -university centres, are by this circular requested to shut down their respective institutions from Wednesday 22nd February 2023 to Tuesday 14th March 2023. “Please, accept the renewed assurances of the Executive Secretary ‘s highest regurds for your understanding and unwavering cooperation”, the letter from the NUC read. Sundiata Post recalls that there have been calls from concerned stakeholders for closure of tertiary institutions to enable students to vote during the 2023 elections. The data from the Independent National Electoral Commission reveals that over 26 million students are currently registered in it’s register. By FUNMILAYO ADEYEMI ABUJA- The Executive Secretary, National Universities’ Commission (NUC) Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, has urged Nigerian universities’ Vice-Chancellors to help government end the current strike by Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). Rasheed made the call in Abuja on Monday at the 2022 Retreat for Vice-Chancellors of Nigerian Universities’… In "Education" The Federal Ministry of Education has ordered vice chancellors to maintain the closure of federal, state and private universities in order to keep students and university communities safe from coronavirus. The National Universities Commission gave the directive through a circular by the Director, Directorate of the Executive Secretary’s Office, Chris… In "Politics" Abuja - Prof. Julius Okojie, the Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission (NUC), has urged universities to comply with the education minister’s directive on subscription to the Nigerian Research and Education Network (NgREN). This is contained in NUC’s weekly bulletin, made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday… In "News"