One of the spokespersons for the All Progressives Congress, APC, Presidential Campaign Council, Bayo Onanuga, has accused the supporters of the Labour Party, LP, of causing massive traffic jams on the Lekki-Epe expressway. His accusations follows the unimaginable turnout of the supporters of the former Anambra State governor who’s concluding his state rally in the commercial capital of Nigeria. Taking to his twitter pager, Onanuga described Obi’s city walk as an uncivilised way to campaign in Lagos State. The Tinubu/Shettima campaign spokesperson said that Obi chose to cause discomfort to Lagos residents. “Peter Obi and his supporters are doing a road walk in Lagos, causing massive traffic jam on the ever busy Lekki-Epe expressway. His rally is at TBS on the island. But he chose to cause discomfort to Lagosians. An uncivilised way to campaign in our city,” Onanuga tweeted. His tweet didn’t go without response from twitter users that accused the journalist of double standard. “Sir, on several occasions, I called the necessary agencies about road blocks in the name of rally, but nothing was done. “I experienced delay on three occasions, missed event twice due to APC blocking of roads, but you didn’t complain that time. “Elders don’t behave like this,” a netizen with the username UnlimitedEniola replied. CindyLuis9 replied “Na selective amnesia dey worry am, when markets were closed down for APC rally they weren’t causing discomfort to people. Yeye elder.” Ronaldnzimora replied: “This c*w did not say anything when Balablu did a motorcade procession after “winning” the primaries of his party. “He also said nothing when Balablu did his campaign and caused holdups.” @MrOshotee: “Bayo, this is too cheap coming from you! Is Obi the first to do rally that blocked major roads in Lagos? When APC did theirs, who did you complain to? You are staring at failure in the face, but you can’t help it @Dann_10: “One of the yeye gatekeepers of journalism is wailing like a cry baby whose corn has just been taken away from him. “Don’t cry, we’re still four people tweeting from a room ”