  YENAGOA (Sundiata Post) – Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has commenced celebration of his third anniversary with commissioning of projects in parts of Yenagoa. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) vice presidential candidate and governor of Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, commissioned the Bayelsa Health Insurance House on Thursday. Okowa commended Diri for the project and urged the electorate in the state to vote for the PDP in the forthcoming presidential election so they can remove the All Progressives Congress (APC) from power. He said with what the Bayelsa State governor was doing, it was important that Bayelsans support his second tenure bid to enable him do more to transform the state. Former governor and member representing Bayelsa West Senatorial District at the Senate, Senator Henry Seriake Dickson, commissioned the Bayelsa Transport Terminal at Igbogene, which he inaugurated as governor. Dickson listed some benefits of the terminal which is expected to contribute to the decongestion of traffic on the Mbiama-Yenagoa road among others and also improve commuter services within the capital. Earlier, the state Commissioner for Information, Orientation and Strategy, Hon. Ayiba Duba, told correspondents that the priority of the Prosperity Government is to ensure that every local government area is accessible by road. Duba who appeared on Thursday at the Correspondents’ Forum of the Federated Correspondent’s Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Bayelsa State Council, expressed regret that though Bayelsa was part of the Old Rivers State in 1967, many communities were not accessible by road. He said as government was determined to reverse the trend, the Governor Diri-led administration’s focus is hinged on construction of key road projects to connect most of the communities located along the coast. He explained that at the moment, three local government headquarters of Brass, Southern Ijaw and Ekeremor are not accessible by road, hence the decision by the Governor to allocate resources to fund ongoing construction works on the Nembe-Brass, Yenagoa-Oporoma and Sagbama-Ekeremor roads to link communities in the three Senatorial districts. His words: “For over 50 years when we were in the old Rivers State, the impression that was given was that there was no land to even construct any road to Ekeremor. “It’s not because there is no likely access to these communities, particularly the local government headquarters. Some few days back I went to Ekeremor and I drove through the road to Ekeremor, not to talk of Oporoma. “As far as the Prosperity Government is concerned, His Excellency Senator Douye Diri is committed to end that. It must end with him. Like Agge is on the Atlantic Ocean, we have come to realize that it’s possible to have a road to Agge. “Look at what we are doing in Nembe/Brass. Agip has its base there for many years. The terminal is there, that is where crude oil is sold to the international community and there is no road there. One of the greatest things we want to achieve is to make sure that Bayelsa State is connected by road, every local government must be linked by road.” He explained that the Diri Administration was eager to continue and complete projects initiated by previous administration to fast track the development of Bayelsa State. Duba said the activities lines up for the third anniversary will continue beyond February 14 which was the date of Diri’s inauguration in 2020.