By DIANA OMUEZA ABUJA- The Social Democratic Party (SDP), has advised the All Progressives Congress (APC) Governors and stalwarts to address its internal party issues. Mr Alfa Mohammed, SDP National Publicity Secretary, gave the advice on Thursday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja. Mohammed said that Nigerians were going through untold hardship due to the ill-timed Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) money swap programme and the biting artificial fuel scarcity. He said that the APC-led government, its candidates and supporters needed to focus on these issues and not hit up the political scenes with inciting statements that could mar the peace of the country. “There is no doubt that the terrible effect of the ill-timed CBN swap programme, just like the biting artificial fuel scarcity is causing untold hardship on Nigerians, especially those at the lower rung of the economy whose daily survival depends on daily cash transactions like the unskilled job seekers, hawkers and traders at the remote areas. “Generally, economic activities have slowed down drastically and the consequent spiral effect of the malicious and ill-timed cash restriction policy has brought instant public anger and hatred against the ruling party and its candidates in the forthcoming elections. “Further, the government risks mass demonstration against the policy on the eves of the election or mass boycott of the general election and these have the capacity to undermine public peace, the election and the nation’s hard-earned democracy,” he said. He added that “Our unity is paramount in the current state of our nation as we navigate through the delicate electoral process. “We advise the APC governors to protect our hard-earned democracy by addressing its party internal issues for the benefit of the masses. “The APC principal candidates for the forthcoming elections should come together and cause their party leadership to meet with Mr president and settle all issues of concerns. “Mr president should also order the immediate extension of the terminal date of the currency swap to the end of June as demanded by the National Assembly. “And all opposition parties should support the call for the extension of the terminal date for the currency swap,” he said. Mohammed said it is imperative for the APC-led government to be focused on ensuring ease in cash flow so its citizens could transact businesses without malicious intentions, fear, rage and anger. He called on the appropriates authorities to investigate and arrest anyone found responsible for sabotaging government’s efforts in ensuring the ease of transitioning of the CBN money swap progamme and the general public access to fuel. Mohammed also said that anyone found guilty of sponsoring candidates or thugs in churning out harsh and anti-people policies or statements should also be arrested and prosecuted. (NAN)