AWKA – Mr. Peter Obi, Labour Party presidential candidate in the Saturday election, continued his whistle-stop mopping-up campaign on Tuesday, returning to Anambra State capital, Awka, to the warm embrace of a tumultuous jubilant crowd.He urged the people to turn out massively on Saturday to vote for him and help in saving Nigeria. Obi said that he is a candidate of the people as his ticket belongs to the people whom he and his running mate, Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmed are desirous to serve to take back Nigeria from the grip of those holding it over the years. Obi, who went through the major streets of Awka accompanied by Obidient supporters led by the Labour Party senatorial candidate of the zone, Senator Victor Umeh, told the people that Saturday’s election is a defining one for the country. At Eke Awka, jubilant supporters abandoned their wares and sang supporting songs following him around the market. He appreciated the hardship the people are going through especially with the redesigning of the currency crisis but urged them not to be deterred but to come out in their numbers to vote for good governance which will end all that. The two-term former governor of the state told his people that a vote for him on Saturday would offer the opportunity to repeat what he did in Anambra state at the federal level. According to the LP flag bearer, the antecedents of him and his Vice Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmad show that they can be trusted having excelled in the private and public sectors as prudent servants of the people. Obi said that corruption is at the point of castrating this country, and a vote for Datti and I will eliminate it and install good governance and accountability. The Presidential Candidate also assured the people that security remains top on their agenda because without security the consumption-to-production policy in his manifesto will not be adequately implemented and without production, the economy will not grow and unemployment will not be tackled. By Obi’s Awka road match, he has covered the three senatorial zones and the major towns in the state, Onitsha, Nnewi, and Awka in his whistle-stop campaigns that have taken him to major cities across the country, including the federal capital territory, Abuja.