LAGOS – Peter Obi, presidential candidate of Labour Party, has urged his supporters not to allow anyone to intimidate them.He was reacting to reports on Saturday that a vote for him would result in negative consequences for them. The LP candidate spoke at Alaba International Market, Ojo, Lagos, where he had gone as party of the Lagos rally billed for Tafawa Balewa Square.  The presidential candidate of Labour Party, Peter Obi, was welcomed with loud cheers from his teeming supporters upon his arrival at Alaba International Market in Lagos State on Saturday. Obi made a stop at the market ahead of a town hall and campaign rally at Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS). “We just arrived at the Alaba international market to an awesome reception. We’re pondering what the rally will be like. LP is Finishing Strong. Salute to all Obidients and the Nigerian Youths,” he tweeted. Around 11 am, Obi arrived at Alaba International Market, his first stop in Lagos. He is expected to address his supporters before moving to a town hall and finally the campaign rally at Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS). The LP candidate said he has travelled round the country and he is more abreast of the problems now than ever, telling the traders and their families to hold him responsible. According to him, the market was built by hard-working people and since then, nothing has been done by the government to improve the market. He promised to come back as President to address all the issues confronting the area. Also present at the event is the LP governorship candidate in Lagos, Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour. After meeting with Alaba Market traders, Obi was inundated by the surging crowd, making it difficult for him to make his way out. Security officers were overwhelmed as the traders were insistent on escorting the presidential candidate to the highway from within the market where the rally was held, a distance of about three kilometres. Meanwhile, some of Obi’s supporters have been attacked by hoodlums ahead of his final campaign rally in the state on Saturday. The supporters were attacked with machetes and other objects as they made their way to Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS) where the rally is to be held. Medical personnel at TBS had their hands full as they attended to the injured. Videos and pictures shared on social media also showed some individuals believed to be Obi’s supporters with bruises, as well as vandalised buses and cars purportedly deployed to transport supporters for the various events to be held by the party. One of the other major parties in the state and its presidential candidate was blamed for the attacks. An activist and Obi supporter, Rinu Oduala, said, “‘Obidients are bullies’. But one party is currently trying to prevent LP rally in Lagos by sponsoring attacks with thugs armed with machetes and guns. The wickedness of our ‘intellectuals and celebrities’ isn’t talked about enough.” (Based on Channels TV reports) By ALABA-OLUSOLA OKE L-R Labour Party Presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi, Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, Labour Party vice presidential candidate Yusuf Datti AKURE- A chieftain of the Labour Party (LP) in Ondo State, Mr Stephen Adeyeri, has described the endorsement of Mr Peter Obi by former President Olusegun Obasanjo as a harbinger of better times to… In "Politics" By LUCY OSUIZIGBO-OKECHUKWU Solidarity March organised by the Coalition for Peter Obi (CPO), in Anambra on Saturday. (NAN) AWKA- A coalition of support groups held a solidarity march on Saturday in Awka in support of Labour Party’s (LP), 2023 presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)… In "Politics" A coalition of supporters of the presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP) Peter Obi and his running mate, Yusuf Ahmed Datti has dissociated itself from a campaign poster in circulation with the pictures of the presidential candidate of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar and their candidate… In "Politics"