By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Eleven days to the Presidential election, it has become clear that the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, will win the election at the first ballot, a former Governor of Plateau State, Amb. Fidelis Tapgun has said. Tapgun said since after the PDP presidential primaries that saw the emergence of Atiku as the party flag bearer, crisis has rocked the party instigated by the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike led G5 Governors. “Every day that passes, people will think the party will break into pieces because Wike must say one thing or the other. But today if you ask me, I will say that the party has handled the matter maturely. I have to be honest with you, I am surprised with the maturity the PDP Chairman, Iyorchia Ayu displayed in the whole process”, Tapgun who is also a member of the PDP board of trustees told our correspondent on Monday. According to him: “The bullets in the hands of the G5 Governors are all exhausted as far as I can see. Despite their ranting, the PDP is forging ahead and as can be clearly seen all over the country, our party is in full control, indicating that Atiku will win this election hands down and I can assure you it will be at the first ballot”, he said. When asked if the G5 Governors no longer pose a threat to the party’s victory, Tapgun said the G5 have never been a threat to the PDP, saying that members of the party only kept quiet so that the party can handle it the best way dimed fit. “Governor Wike and the G5 planned to destroy Atiku’s chances of winning the presidential elections, but the party’s Chairman, Ayu, refused to be cowed. “Even in the States controlled by the G5 Governors, Atiku will win. The Governors only have one vote. They can only vote once. PDP is in the heart of the people. Even in Rivers State where Wike thinks he is in control, Atiku will win handsomely’, Tapgun said. He said the experience in politics gathered by the PDP Chairman over the years has helped in articulating the character displaced over the party crisis, adding that if it was the Iyorchia Ayu of two decades ago, the situation would have been different because Wike and his group would have long been expelled. “If it was the Ayu I know, he is a very radical person and if you know his background, he is tough when it comes to democracy. “You know he was the Senate President when I was the Governor during the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and when the country ran into the Abiola crisis and the then Head of States Ibrahim Babangida did not know the way out, he wanted to hand over to Ayu who was the Senate President so that he can take over and organise elections in three months. Ayu refused, saying that it would be a betrayal to Abiola and for that reason he was sacked as the Senate President. “So you have seen why he has handled this crisis very maturely and has defeated the G5 Governors in their antics to ridicule our Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar”, Tapgun said.