By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Voters in Nkporo wards of Abia North Senatorial District have vowed to deliver the maximum votes accruable in their polling units in favour of the candidate of the All Progressive’s Congress (APC), Senator Orji Uzor Kalu in forthcoming Presidential and National Assembly elections scheduled to hold on 25th February. Kalu the Chief Whip of the Senate , who currently represents the zone at the Senate was on Thursday conferred as the Sole Senatorial candidate when he advanced his re-election campaign tour to the ancient town of Nkporo in Ohafia Local Government Area, during which he held engagements with locals, public stakeholders, political party leaders and supporters at each wards of the Town. Having catalogued his infrastructural footings in their community both as Governor of the State and now legislator, the electorates at separate resolutions vowed to back his candidature by voting massively for Kalu during the elections. APC candidates for Arochukwu Ohafia Federal Constituency and House of Assembly Candidate for Ohafia North state Constituency, Hon. Daniel Okeke and Hon. Otuwe Kalu Oji who accompanied Kalu were also accorded similar endorsements by the community stakeholders. At Ndiagbor, Ndi Etitiama, Ndi Elu , Ugwufie and Amaiyi-Umuogwuru Wards where Kalu had arrived to carnival like hosting, the people in sperate speeches rendered by their leaders passed a vote of confidence on Kalu and other candidates present with him. References were made to Kalu’s impacts as Governor which included the Electrification of the entire Town, construction of the community roads , borehole water, schools ,prompt and optimum payment of salaries and gratuities and wages to civil servants and pensioners, among others. Assessing his impact as legislator both the community and Kalu took stock of his achievements amongst which were; Renovation of Okoko primary school, Nkporo; Provision of water borehole in Amurie and Elughu; Renovation of 1 Classroom block at Elughu; Renovation of 1 Classroom block at Ugwuafia, to name a few. Need to reelect Kalu to consolidate on his works was emphasised at “Ndiagbo” by their Community Leader, Capt. Paul Otanaga. According to him Kalu being a first time Senator had performed impressively beyond previous legislators. Otanaga endorsed Kalu’s re-election; “You have been a blessing to us, you have displayed a unique level of capacity in delivering good Democratic dividends. Ndiagbo is made up of “Akuko”, “Agbaja”, “Uka ” and we believe in your capacity to do more. “Till date all existing single basic infrastructure in Nkporo were all built by you both as Governor and have continued now as a Senator , it is on that note that we’re voting you massively to return to the Senate. Prominent Stakeholder of Amaiyi Ward, Chukwu Kalu stressed the need to vote for Kalu and other Parliamentary candidates present with him, Kalu described Okeke and Otule as Kalu’s infrastructural “foot soldiers” who will augment the Senate Chief Whip’s infrastructural project drive. He said ; “He (Kalu) is the only candidate we know in Nkporo. I and my people have met and have made it clear to vote for him and some other APC candidates for the House of Representatives and Assembly, we will cast our votes in his favour to return to the National Assembly to continue to work for us”. Ohafia Local Government Chairman of the APC, Engr. Emma Nwosu said that Kalu had changed the narrative of what is expected of a Lawmaker, saying that the Chief Whip had exceeded expectations. Nwosu disclosed that Kalu’s seat wasn’t vacant, pledging to deliver maximum votes for the Lawmaker. While the APC legislative candidates Daniel Okeke and Otule Oji spoke of Kalu’s legislative performances, they canvassed for the votes of electorates of Nkporo promising to continue with the same impactful representation set by the Chief Whip. Daniel Okeke spoke on the importance of voting the APC; “25th is very important to all of us, ensure you continue to mobilise. Voting for Orji Kalu, myself and Hon. Otuwe will be very beneficial to us all. I provided the funds to grade this road (Elughu)in December from my pockets, but when I get into Government I will have the capacity to tar it and other roads, give your children jobs, good schools, water and other infrastructures Another notable youth Leader Hon. Ude Agbai from Etitiama Nkporo charged the voters to vote enormously for Kalu recounting what he had done, the youth leader also stated that only a person opposed to good governance would vote against the Senator. On his part Kalu appreciated the people for their endorsements, he noted that his works in their various communities is premised on his zeal to improve the welfare of constituents. Kalu disclosed that his achievements were just the beginning pledged to consolidate on them when reelected. APC Leaders present at the following respective wards of NdiAgbo, Etitiama, Ugwufie , Ndi Elu and Umuogwuru were: Ward Chairmen , John Ude Kalu, Ndukwe Mba, Ude Opannwa, Uka Njoku Onu and Orieagha Chukwu Kalu while the Women Leaders comprised of Jaycee Dickson, Uzoma Ndukwe , Joy Uche, Mary Oji and Nnena Orjison as well as the youth Leaders namely ; Ukaogbonna, Kalu Okpara, Uche Oko, Eme Imo and Chibueze Egberie.Also present were Leaders of Reality Organization and OUK Movement.