By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Hundreds of electorates in Bende Wards in Bende Local Government Area of Abia state have declared that their decision to elect their Abia-North Senator, Orji Uzor Kalu has been profitable to them vowing to repeat the same feat in 2023. Numerous capital works built by Orji Kalu the Senate Chief Whip were highlighted by constituents which they said exceeded their conjectures as a result of their earlier belief that Senators were meant to make laws only. In furtherance of his re-election campaign, Kalu candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) visited Alayi Ward A and B, Ezeukwu and Ugwuanyi wards on Thursday to seek the blessings of his constituents for a second term at the Senate in the forthcoming February 25th polls. Evidence of Kalu’s legislative impacts were told at “Alayi Ward B”, in a speech rendered by President General of Amankalu Alayi Pastor Iheanyi Okoronkwo, who spoke on behalf of the people.The community Leader commended Kalu for expediting laudable projects within their areas stressing that they were marveled at the pace at which Kalu facilitated these projects being his first debut at the Senate. Iheanyi split out the roads and schools constructed by Kalu saying that voting the Senate Chief Whip was the best Political decision they ever took.“Amankalu – Alayi ; Akoli – Amaiyi and Isuigu link roads are some of the roads Orji Kalu built for us within a short period at the Senate including repairing of our dilapidated schools and so on, he doesn’t need to campaign here as his winning has been sealed already. Our expectations have been exceeded. Our polling units belong to him in this 2023 election because no party has been able to do what he has done for us”, Iheanyi maintained. Prominent indigene of “Alayi community, Mr. Perfect Okorie talked about the Water Borehole installed by the Lawmaker and highlighted other projects. The top official of the APC said they never doubted his capacity from the time they choose to elect him in 2019 saying that Kalu had achieved beyond what they thought were the duties of a Lawmaker, Okorie pledged their commitment to increase the amount of votes he got from the community than what he got in 2019”.“The water borehole at “Obuche Isiaku” which is now running, not to mention our schools and roads , no representative or subsequent administration after Orji Kalu’s had ever given us such. In this election we don’t need to be told what to do because the name Orji Kalu is the only contestant we know and we shall vote for him again”, Okorie stated. Additional dividends of electing Kalu in 2019 were reeled out at “Alayi Ward A” when hundreds of overjoyed electorates and party faithfuls converged at the Alayi Central School ground to host Senator Kalu and his campaign members.Chieftain of the council area, Chief Orji Ikoro referred to the reconstructed school block by Kalu right at the venue of the rally which said is a typical attestation of the Lawmaker’s gains in their community.Based on his performance Ikoro declared that there was no way they wouldn’t vote for the Senator to return so as to carry on with building more meaningful infrastructures.Ikoro listed Kalu’s projects; “As it stands Kalu is miles ahead of other candidates and there’s no other reasonable decision we can take than for us to vote for him again as he has discharged his duties more than had initially proposed.“Presently Kalu has constructed the Amaoku – Amankwu , Ugwa Agbai, Amankalu Obuchie roads. Presently works will soon begin on Igbere Okafia Amankalu Road, Umuenyere Amankwu Amaeke and Samek road. We won’t forget to mention the Solar light, even the school we’re holding this rally has been built. These projects are visible and we will gladly vote for him again because there’s more to come. Hundred percent votes were pledged for Kalu by constituents of “Ugwueke” after they admitted that Kalu was the only influential politician who made them politically relevant after over twenty years.Member representing Bende North State Constituency in the Abia State House of Assembly, Hon. Chijioke Chukwu who spoke on behalf of the gathering expressed how Kalu changed the face of politics in “Bende” which used to be about sharing rice every four years. The Abia House of Assembly minority leader commended Senator Kalu for always carrying the community along since his days as Abia State Governor and currently as a Senator vowing to deliver 100% votes for the Chief Whip of the Senate. He said: ” When I was sitting with my leader over there, he told me he wasn’t supposed to campaign here and I agreed with him. Ugwueke is APC and APC is Ugwueke. After over twenty years, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu made sure an Ugwueke person appeared on a ballot for the very first time. It is time to reward him massively with our votes,” he said. Reason for the delay in the ongoing road construction from Alayi to Ezeukwu community was explained by Senator Kalu, which he said was as a result of the dilapidated bridge linking both communities. He disclosed that construction equipment won’t be able to cross over, assuring when the bridge is completed work will continue and the road will extend to Mile 2 community in Ebonyi state. Kalu announced the distribution of Cassava milling machines to each community which according to him will reduce the grinding cost for local farmers from 250 Naira to 25 Naira. He however told the farmers that they’ll have to bear the cost of its maintenance.“In due time almost all your roads will be built. Next on my agenda is to build the Okafia to Amankalu and Amankalu to Ozuitem and Amankalu to Uzuakoli roads.“I will renovate the Ezeukwu community school just like I have done for others. There’s nothing to compare between me , my opponents and predecessors because they have done nothing. Shortly after the speeches, a voice vote was conducted by each community leader in which the people unanimously passed a vote of confidence on Kalu’s re-election promising to increase the percentage of votes he got from their wards in 2019. •Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State  By David Onwuchekwa His Royal Majesty, Eze Uche Elekwa, Akukwu 1 of Isiaku Alayi in Bende Local Government Area of Abia State has made a fresh passionate appeal to the Chairman of the Council and other government agencies to come over to the community… In "Metro" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Following the erection of critical infrastructures and facilitation of human capacity advancement programmes in their communities,People of Bende Wards in Abia North Senatorial District have declared that they're indebted to Senator Orji Uzor Kalu representing the zone at the National Assembly promising to… In "News" …as Senator Inspects "Ogbiti - Ukwu Amaediaba" link road By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - In advance to the forthcoming 2023 polls, the people of Bende Wards in Abia North Senatorial District have expressed gratitude to the Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu whom they said… In "Politics"