ABUJA – The Kano governorship candidate of the Labour Party, LP, Bashir Bashir, has decamped to the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC. On January 21, the governorship candidate staged a boycott on the Labour Party’s presidential rally in Kano alongside the chairman of the Presidential Campaign Council, Mohammed Zarewa; state coordinator of Peter Obi’s campaign, Balarabe Wakili and; a member of the presidential campaign council, Idris Dambazau. A source close to the candidate confirmed the defection of Mr Bashir and other LP leaders to APC on Sunday, saying major reason for their defection is the exclusion of major Northern stakeholders in decision making process and lack of clear direction on the interest of the Northern Nigeria. According to a report in DAILY NIGERIAN, Mr Bashir had two meetings with the APC presidential candidate as well as the vice presidential candidate Kashim Shettima in Lagos and Abuja and agreed on the defection terms. According to a source familiar with the decision, the LP candidate had endorsed the APC presidential candidate and promised to mobilise his supporters for him. By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The former media aide to President Muhammadu Buhari, Bashir Ahmad has described Peter Obi, the Presidential candidate of Labour Party as a big threat to both the People's Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2023 general election. According to… In "Top Stories" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Gubernatorial Candidate of the Labour in Kano State, Alhaji Bashir Ishaq Bashir has debunked media reports that he was planning to defect to the All Peoples' Congrss. A statement by the spokesman of the Obi/Datti Campaign, Dr Yunusa Tanko quoted Alhaji Bashir as… In "Top Stories" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has been directed by a Federal High Court in Kano to recognise and publish Bashir Ishaq Bashir’s name as the Labour Party’s legally nominated candidate for the 2023 Gubernatorial Candidate along with Alhaji Auwalu Abdullahi as his… In "Top Stories"