ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – Dr Femi Okurounmu, a chieftain of the Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, will on Sunday be a guest on Boiling Point Arena, a monthly online discourse on politics and governance. According to a statement made available to Sundiata Post by Mr. Eddy Ademosu, chairman of the organising committee, Okurounmu will speak on ‘The current state of Nigeria and the gathering political storm.’ The programme, which will be held online via Google Meet, is expected to be transmitted live by an Abeokuta-based radio station, Oodua 99.9FM for the two-hour duration from 8pm to 10pm. Senator Okurounmu who is 84 years old will walk the audience through Nigeria’s path from nationhood and the myriads of other issues including the tortuous journey towards perfecting democracy, the poverty in the land, high-scale corruption, the unfolding social uprising and the gathering political storm capable of marring the approaching Presidential Election. Boiling Point Arena, a monthly current affairs programme with an incredibly large online followership, is the brainchild of Mr. Ayo Arowojolu, a media professional with 33 years multi-varied work career spanning the media, banking and education sectors. Mr Eddy Ademosu, a foremost Public Relations Icon based in Lagos, enjoined members of the public to join the conversation so as to cross-ventilate ideas and proffer solutions to the current Nigerian dilemna. Ademosu commended the Management of Oodua FM, chaired by the CEO, Dr Victor Mark Eniola, for identifying with worthy causes through partnering with the Boiling Point Arena to widen the audience reach through its terrestrial and online channels BOILING POINT is a news and general interest platform for informed discussions, viewpoints and commentary on governance and national development issues. Senator Femi Okurounmu has alleged that some individuals, whom he addressed as ‘Fulani Militias’, have been killing and kidnapping the Yorubas of the South West like pullet chickens since five years ago. Okurounmu, an Afenifere leader, said the suspected militias have on different occasions, invaded villages, allegedly killing, kidnapping and… In "News" Peter Obi (right) in a close discussion with Pa Ayo Adebanjo. With them is Senator Femi Okurounmu at the Abeokuta rally on Saturday ABEOKUTA (Sundiata Post) - The Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, continued his nationwide campaign in Ogun state on Saturday, declaring that it’s the turn… In "Top Stories" Lagos - A financial analyst, Mr Titus Okurounmu, on Wednesday advised the Federal Government to make funds available to revamp ailing industries to check youth unemployment. Okurounmu, a former Director of Research at the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), gave the advice in an interview with the News Agency (NAN) in Lagos.… In "News"