By ALEX ENEBELI ENUGU- The Nigeria Movie Industry on Tuesday night held a candle night in honour of the late Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and founder, Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAA), Madam Peace Anyiam-Osigwe. The event which was organised by the popular Nollywood icon, Patience Ozokwor, a.k.a Mama G, in Enugu, had many actors, actresses and film producers in attendance. The candle procession started at Okpara Square, Enugu, and ended at Golden Valley Lounge, Independence Layout, Enugu, where they held prayers and tributes in her honour. Anyiam-Osigwe reportedly died on Jan. 10, but the family did not disclosed the cause of death. Speaking at the event, Ozokwor said the candle night was their own little way of appreciating and honouring late Anyiam-Osigwe for her great work in the movie industry. Paying tribute to her, the movie star described Anyiam-Osigwe as “a great woman, so organised, articulate and a kind hearted person”. She added that through her generosity, many Nollywood actors and actresses were lifted and taken to where they never expected. “Her interest is to take others where never dreamt of, including older persons who had not achieved a lot in the industry. “When I heard of her demise, I was shocked because we are like sisters but in all, I thank God for a life well spent. “I said she cannot be buried without doing something like this for her,” Ozokwor said. Another Nollywood legend, Nkem Owoh, popularly known as “Osuofia”, said Anyiam-Osigwe was a different woman in the movie industry. He added that the impact she created in the industry would not die, saying, “I have great respect for her works through AMAA”. Owoh said: “Peace Anyiam-Osigwe is irreplaceable and her contributions to the movie industry can never be erased”. He said the Nollywood family gathered to give her their last respect and to her family, “I say may God give them fortitude to bear the loss”. The Chairman, Association of Movie Producers of Nigeria (AMPN), Enugu Chapter, Johnpaul Nwanganga, described the late Anyiam-Osigwe as a friend, mother and teacher, saying that her death is a huge loss to the industry and entire nation. “We will immortalize her by keeping and building on those legacies she left behind,” Nwanganga said. The News of Nigeria (NAN) reports that aside being CEO of AMAA, Anyiam-Osigwe is a Nigerian filmmaker and entertainment executive, National President (AMPN) and President Federation of Nigeria Nollywood Guild Association. She had been honoured with “Member, Federal Republic of Nigeria (MFR). (NAN)