By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The supporters of the frontrunners in Nigeria’s presidential candidates hit the campaign trail on Saturday, in a major push to convince voters a week before the polls. Supporters of Nigeria’s Labour Party hold posters during a global march for the presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP) Peter Obi, in Abuja, Nigeria on February 18, 2023 ahead of the Nigerian presidential election scheduled for February 25, 2023. Although Peter Obi was not seen on the campaign trail but took to social media to call on his supporters, “the Obidients”, to rally in several cities across the country.In the capital Abuja, several hundred Obi supporters marched from the Unity Fountain in Maitama to the city gate, chanting and blowing vuvuzelas. Sundiata Post recalls that more than 90 million people are registered to vote in Nigeria where President Muhammadu Buhari is stepping down after his two terms allowed by the constitution. Waving from the top of an open-air double-decker bus, the ruling party’s candidate Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) paraded through the streets of Maiduguri in northeast Borno state. Recall that Tinubu is expected to stage a final rally in Lagos on Tuesday. In nearby Adamawa state, the main opposition candidate Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) also made an entrance into the city of Yola on a double-decker bus. Thousands of people attended both rallies, waving flags and shouting party slogans while loudspeakers blasted music. Campaigning is taking place as the nation faces insecurity and tensions over a currency crisis. On Saturday morning, gunmen attacked a police station in the Ogidi area of southeastern Anambra state. “The hoodlums started shooting sporadically on approaching the area command and threw improvised explosive devices and petrol bombs, gaining entrance (into the station),” police spokesman Ikenga Tochukwu said in a statement. “Three police operatives paid the supreme price,” Tochukwu added. Unrest in the southeast is just one of the challenges facing security forces, who are also fighting a 14-year-old jihadist insurgency in the northeast and kidnapping gangs in the northwest. Nigerians have also been struggling with a shortage of cash since the central bank introduced newly designed notes in December, banning old ones. But in its effort to promote “cashless” payments and reduce the volume of money outside the banking system, the central bank printed a much smaller amount of notes than were previously in circulation. The lack of cash has triggered protests in major cities this week, with customers attacking banks and barricading roads just days before elections. Tensions have also emerged inside the ruling APC party, with accusations that the cash crisis could frustrate Tinubu’s election bid. Obidients on Saturday ABUJA - Thousands of supporters of Labour Party’s presidential candidate, Peter Obi, staged a peaceful rally in Abuja on Saturday. The pro-Obi supporters marched from the Unity Fountain to the Moshood Abiola National Stadium amid heavy security. At the rally alongside the pro-Obi supporters are officers of… In "Top Stories" Peter Obi at the LP Presidential rally in Gusau on Thursday GUSAU - Obi-Datti Presidential Campaign flight touched down in the North Western state of Zamfara on Thursday with the candidate, Mr. Peter Obi and his Vice Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmad promising to unlock the abundant resources of the state into… In "Politics" A coalition of supporters of the presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP) Peter Obi and his running mate, Yusuf Ahmed Datti has dissociated itself from a campaign poster in circulation with the pictures of the presidential candidate of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar and their candidate… In "Politics"