ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – The Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi on Saturday, one week before the all important Presidential election, assured Nigerians that if voted in, he and his Vice, Yusuf Datti Baba-Ahmad will bring the all-encompassing change that will take Nigeria to where it is supposed to be. In a message to Nigerian voters via his Twitter page, Obi declared; “Fellow Nigerians, we are down to crunch time – 7 Days to the Main Day. Our strength is in our diversity. “We need to reset and reboot Nigeria in all ramifications –leadership and governance, security of life and properties, economic and political freedom. We must celebrate our shared values and responsibilities”. Obi said that if elected the change he and Datti will seek will be all-encompassing, “we will bring back patriotism and national pride. Loyalty should be to God and Country. The Constitution and Rule of Law will have primacy” The former Anambra state Governor told the youths in particular that he came into the race for them; “In this march to freedom, I have not come out for myself! I have come out for the millions of youths that are losing hope in our beloved country! “Datti and I, wish to deliver a new Nigeria that is POssible! I have come out for the millions of women who are afraid of tomorrow and what it holds for them and their children! I have come out for the poor who are asking whether it’s a sin to be a Nigerian! For them, I have come! For them, Datti has come!” “Our message has been consistent. Nigeria is not bereft of the required human capital necessary for good leadership. Nigeria is also not bereft of good governance ideas and plans. But he regretted that, “our country is bedeviled by the impunity of those few who have perfected the dubious act of state capture. These national interest issues need to be addressed urgently. The process will start in earnest on 25th February. The LP standard bearer assured the people that their strategy for securing the country will be enduring as, “We will raise the population to police officer ratio to a higher level and ensure properly manned, equipped and technologically driven security system.” By FRANCIS ONYEUKWU Mr Peter Obi, Baba Ahmad Datti IDEMILI SOUTH (ANAMBRA)- Chief Joemartins Uzodike, Coordinator, Peter Obi and Yusuf Datti Presidential Campaign Council in Anambra, on Sunday called on all the support groups to begin door-to-door and market campaign for Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party.Uzodike… In "Politics" By FRANCIS ONYEUKWU Mr Peter Obi, Yusuf Datti AWKA- The Labour Party (LP) on Wednesday inaugurated a 750-man Presidential Committee to drive the Peter Obi/Yusuf Datti presidential Campaign in Anambra.Chief Joemartins Uzodike, former Commissioner for Information in the state, is to serve as the Director-General, with Prof. Stella Okunna, Azuka… In "Politics" By AKEEM ABAS Mr Peter Obi, Yusuf Datti IBADAN- The Labour Party (LP) Presidential Candidate, Mr Peter Obi, has assured Nigerians of a greater and prosperous nation if elected as the country’s next president in February 2023. He gave the assurance during the party’s presidential campaign held at the Lekan… In "Politics"