Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said voting will be extended till Sunday in some polling units in Cross River State. The INEC’s Head of Department (HOD), Voter Education and Publicity, Anthonia Nwobi, said this in a statement issued on Saturday on behalf of the state Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC). “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has announced the extension period of voting for the Presidential and National Assembly Elections to Sunday February 26, 2023 in Polling Units in Cross River State that election did not take place on Saturday 25 February, 2023 including Polling Units and Wards in Bakassi Local Government Area; Dayspring 1 & 2, Qua Island. “Voting in the affected areas will resume by 8 am till 12.00pm on Sunday February 26, 2023. All Stakeholders including Members of Political Parties, Interagency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES), Observers, Press, INEC Staff and Adhoc Personnel for 2023 general elections etc should be guided accordingly.” Nwobi urged all affected eligible voters to use the opportunity to come out and cast their votes. “The Commission also wishes to re-assure all eligible voters of her resolution that no registered voter will be disenfranchised in the 2023 general election,” INEC added. Nwobi urged all affected eligible voters to use the opportunity to come out and cast their votes. “The Commission also wishes to re-assure all eligible voters of her resolution that no registered voter will be disenfranchised in the 2023 general election,” INEC added. By Douglas Okoro Abakaliki -The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Ebonyi Monday bagan a two-day training for Electoral Officers on methods and principles for the proposed polling units in the state. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state, Dr Joseph Chukwu, who declared the workshop open in Abakiliki,… In "Features" By George Odok Abi (Cross River) - The police in Cross River have commended the peaceful voting by electorate in the Abi/Yakurr Federal Constituency bye-election in Cross River. Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Irene Ugbo, who spoke with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), on Saturday, said the… In "Politics" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed the governorship elections in Ekiti and Osun States for June 18th and July 16th 2021 respectively. INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, made the announcement on Wednesday at the meeting of the commission held at its… In "Top Stories"