Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, has taken his campaign to Nnewi, Anambra State. Obi visited the Obi of Otolo and Igwe of Nnewi Kingdom, Igwe Kenneth Onyeneke Orizu III. The monarch gave his royal blessings to the Labour Party flag bearer and prayed for him for a successful outing. Obi stated this on Tuesday via his verified Twitter handle @PeterObi. The tweet reads: “I paid a courtesy call on the Obi of Otolo and Igwe of Nnewi Kingdom, Igwe Dr. Kenneth Onyeneke Orizu III. It was a very convivial and pleasant visit. Grateful for the wise counsel and prayers. -PO” I paid a courtesy call on the Obi of Otolo and Igwe of Nnewi Kingdom, Igwe Dr. Kenneth Onyeneke Orizu III. It was a very convivial and pleasant visit. Grateful for the wise counsel and prayers. -PO pic.twitter.com/ctWW8oSotw Sundiata Post recalls that Peter Obi had, while fielding questions in an interview with Channels yesterday, said that when he called to visit the Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu, during his rally in Lagos, he was told that the Oba was not readily available to receive him then. The traditional ruler of Nnewi and grand patron, Anambra Sta­te Traditional Rule­rs Council, HRH. Igwe K.O.N Orizu III, the Igwe Nnewi, has issued a statement expressi­ng his deep worries about the state of health of a member of the Igwe Nnewi-in-Council, Chief Olisa Metuh, who is still lying cr­itically ill… In "Local News" Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Anambra-born businessman, Arthur Eze, has said he does not approve of the presidential ambition of Peter Obi, a former governor of Anambra State. Obi is contesting the presidency on the platform of the Labour Party following his departure from the Peoples Democratic Party which has former Vice President… In "Top Stories" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Candidate of the Labour Party for the 2023 House of Representatives election in Ogbaru Federal Constituency, Hon. Victor Afam Ogene, has stated that people of his area have no reason to withhold support from the Presidential Candidate of his party, Mr. Peter Obi.… In "Top Stories"