By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – As the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) collates the results of the 2023 General Elections, especially the Presidential Election, the Director General of National Orientation Agency (NOA), Dr. Garba Abari has called on Nigerian youths to shun any voice of temptation urging resort to any unlawful means in ventilating any objections they may have to the election result collation process and its outcome. This is also as he has appealed to Nigerians to remain calm and avoid acts and utterances capable of overheating the polity. The DG made the call today (Tuesday) in a special statement he personally signed and made available to Sundiata Post in Abuja. Abari urged Nigerians to conduct themselves with decorum especially regarding the still on-going collation of results. Abari called on Nigerians to be patient and allow for the completion of the result collation process, bearing in mind that there are available legal means for redress of electoral grievances. The statement reads in part: “As a people, we have invested so much in the 2023 General Elections, both as a nation and as individual citizens, to let anything truncate the process at any point. I call on political, religious and traditional leaders and indeed all leaders of thought, to not only exercise caution in their utterances at this time, but also to please use their influence to promote peace, restraint and recourse to legal means alone at this critical moment of our national experience. “Furthermore, I call on Nigerian youths to shun any voice of temptation urging resort to any unlawful means in ventilating any objections you may have to the election result collation process and its outcome. Remember that no Nigerian, young or old, has anything to gain from setting the nation on the path of violence and instability. “The survival of the country far outweighs any other consideration and nothing should provoke our people even at this time. We have, as a people, worked together to achieve the peace that we enjoy today. We have worked hard to ensure that this election happened peacefully. We have more to gain as a nation by remaining peaceful and orderly as we await the result of the election. The NOA DG thanked Nigerians for their impressive turnout for the election, stressing that that is why at this time, what is needed is calm and order to ensure that, as one people, we will overcome the challenges we have observed in the process.  ...Urges Nigerians to be extraordinary for their country in 2023 by performing their civic duties of participation in the general election and census By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Director General of National OrientationAgency (NOA), Dr. Garba Abari has expressed optimism that the New Year holds greater glory… In "Top Stories" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Director General of the National Orientation Agency, Dr. Garba Abari has read riot acts to  corporate organizations and government agencies involved in the poor hoisting of the nation’s flag. Abari who said sanction would be meted on violators stated this on Wednesday… In "News" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Director General of Nigeria Orientation Agency, Garba Abari has condemned the failure of the leaders of Nigeria Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and Market Women Associations to enforce strict compliance of the COVID-19 Protocols on their members. According to him, “Motorists now… In "News"