By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – After careful assessment of other candidates vying for the Abia-North Senatorial seat in the forthcoming February 25th polls, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu of the All Progressive’s Congress has been declared as the most credible and dependable one. Kalu, the presiding Senator of the zone at the National Assembly was bestowed with the feat by political wards of Ohafia LGAs on Wednesday at Ohafia South State Constituency where he visited in furtherance of his re-election campaign. Alongside his team and party stalwarts the former two time Abia Governor visited five Abia State Independent Electoral Commission (ABSIEC) wards, namely; Isiama, Ebem-Oha, Ohafor, Amaibe Ezeoke and Owuwuayanwu.As stated by prominent stakeholders of each ward, their decision to accord Kalu, the Chief Whip of the Senate with such honour after scrutinising other candidates was owing to the fulfillment of majority of all the 2019 pledges he made to their respective communities. Receiving the Lawmaker at Achichi Square, Elu Ohafia, the campaign venue for Isiama ward, Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ohafia Local Government Area, Engr. Emma Nwosu while addressing a large crowd of community dwellers reeled out Kalu’s landmark achievements. Some of Kalu’s impacts as listed by the community ranged from infrastructures to empowerments they include; Construction and reconstruction of Ebem-Asaga-Ndi Ibe-Amuma-Okon-Amangwu, road; construction of Ndi Uduma Awoke, Akanu Ukwu ,Isiugwu and Abia roads with Asphalt and double drainages, scholarships to Ohafia youths to study Medicine and Surgery in South America, Solar street lights in Ohafia communities to mention a few. The Stakeholder lauded Senator Kalu for engendering economic development through massive construction of rural roads and improving the lives of the people, reaffirming support for the senator’s reelection bid to ensure continuity of his performance which they described as credible.Emma announced the decision to back Kalu’s re-election; “We have no choice than to support the senator to sustain his developmental strides across the Senatorial District. We are going to support you with our Permanent Voters‘ Cards (PVCs) come February 25.“We have seen other candidates but we have decided to stick with Senator Kalu because he remains the most trusted who has kept to his promises, Kalu is a good man and leader; he has transformed our constituency and our weapon to vote for him is our PVCs, which we are going to use on that day in his favour.” Kalu in his speech appreciated the people of Ohafia South State Constituency for their continuous support and prayers. He stated that his visit to Ohafia is like a homecoming, “because the Ohafia people and their Igbere counterparts are one.” While naming some of the projects he executed as Abia state governor, he also highlighted some of the projects he attracted to Ohafia South State Constituency as a senator, vowing to complete the Eziafor Ohafia road project. Kalu recalled the previous terrible state of some roads before he constructed them within his three year tenure, especially the Uwaram to Asaga , Elu to Amagwu, Asaga to Ezeiofor roads. Kalu said that seven roads were also constructed in Amaeke stressing that his signature projects are dotted around Ohafia communities in addition to Solar lighting. Kalu also reminded the community that the Electrification of Ohafia was installed during his tenure as Governor of the state. The Senate Chief Whip also rallied support for House of Representatives candidate for Arochukwu Ohafia Federal Constituency, Chief Dr. Daniel Chimezie Okeke and other APC candidates. Kalu urged the voters to cast their votes in favour of the APC to consolidate on his works; “Abiriba, Ohafia, Ututu, Igbere, Abam and other communities in Abia North are one. We must live in peace with one another. I am not here to campaign; I am here to interact with you on the state of your welfare just like I did in August because Ohafia is my home. I am the Ikenga of Ohafia, that’s why when others campaigned with your roads without executing them, Orji Uzor Kalu came and constructed them; I am a promise keeper. “Don’t allow them to deceive you, the Senate is not a place for kids and inexperienced people, I am using my contacts to bring projects here and I am ready to do more for you when re-elected. I will do more for our people in Ohafia,” he said. In a voice vote presided over by their ward leaders elated residents who converged at; Elu(Isiama ward), Ebem(Ebem-Oha ward), Eziafor( Amaibe Ezeoke ward), Asaga(Ohafor ward), Okagwe (Owuwuayanwu ward), unanimously adopted Senator Kalu as their consensus senatorial candidate for the 2023 Abia North election. Senator Kalu was accompanied by top chieftains of the All Progressives Congress, APC, including the House of Representatives candidate for Arochukwu Ohafia Federal Constituency, Chief Dr. Daniel Chimezie Okeke; the candidate of the APC for Ohafia South State Constituency, Chief Dike Okoro Uche; Leaders of Reality Organization and OUK Movement.