By SAM JONES YENAGOA (Sundiata Post) – Late arrival of election materials and officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) have affected voting in various parts of Bayelsa State in the presidential election taking place on Saturday (today). As at 9 am, election materials were yet to be distributed while actual voting began at about 10 am in some polling units. Meanwhile, reports show that some polling units in the capital, Yenagoa did not get election materials resulting in protest at the state headquarters of INEC. Armed policemen shot into the air to disperse the protesters who had marched on INEC after waiting for several hours in parts of Yenagoa. At Ofoni Community in Sagbama Local Government Area of the state, two ladies were shot in the leg by three youths in an issue that was not related to the election. The youths were apprehended by an angry mob and handed over to security operatives. Governor Douye Diri, who voted at 10.32am at his community, Sampou Unit 6, Kalamowei, has called on INEC to extend voting time due to the delays experienced by voters. Diri said the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BIVAS) is better. Former President Goodluck Jonathan who voted at his hometown, Otuoke in Ogbia Local Government Area of the state, had to wait due to delay in arrival of materials. Jonathan also hailed the introduction of BIVAS saying it is better than the card reader and urged the electorate to shun violence. Prince Reports from Yenagoa Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Reports of violence, killings, snatching of ballot boxes and intimidation of voters seem to have characterised if not marred the ongoing governorship polls in Bayelsa state. Though there are also reports of peaceful voting in some polling areas, general reactions to the… In "Top Stories" By Nathan Nwakamma Yenagoa - Voting has ended and collation of votes is in progress across Bayelsa in respect of Saturday’s Governorship elections, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports NAN also reports that the election was generally peaceful, although pockets of violence were reported in some places. Sources across… In "Politics" Violence and late arrival of electoral officials with voting materials have marred the on-going elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states. While much of Bayelsa has been peaceful, gunshots were reported shortly before 11am in the Opolo area of Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital, as political thugs attempted to snatch ballot… In "Politics"