ABUJA – Prof. Adesoji Adesugba, Managing Director of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA) says the extraordinary contributions of the President of Benin Chamber of Commerce Industry, Mines and Agriculture (BENCCIMA), Mrs Aina Omo-Ojeonu, who passed away on Saturday to the growth of the country’s Organised Private Sector (OPS) will not be forgotten in a hurry. Adesugba made the remark in his condolence message to Chief John Udeagbala, President, National Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) on Sunday in Abuja. Omo-Ojeonu, a trained pharmacist and business guru, reportedly died in the early hours of Saturday, February 17. Adesugba said that the news of the demise of the late president of the Benin Chamber was received with rude shock. He further explained that the late president had strong business character, adding that she used that virtue to excellently impact the country’s Organised Private Sector (OPS). The NEPZA boss further said that Omo-Ojeonu was indeed a seasoned entrepreneur with many years of experience in the country’s business environment churning out wealth and prosperity. Adesugba said that the deceased was in the forefront of canvassing for a private sector-led economy, adding that she vigorously advocated for realistic empowerment of women and unemployed youth in the country. “She was indeed a great achiever, an exemplary and a rare gem. Her loss has created a vacuum which will be hard to fill. Rest in peace my friend. “Let me on behalf of myself and the entire staff of NEPZA commiserate with the leadership of NACCIMA and the entire chamber family for the loss of this committed member,’’ Adesugba said. Until her death, Pharm. (Mrs.) Aina Omo-Ojeonu was a serving President of the Benin Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (BENCCIMA), Regional 2nd Deputy President of the South-South Chamber of Commerce; co-opted ex-officio member of the National Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) Executive Committee. She was also the President & CEO of Eboreime Ventures Limited (EVL) and Founder & CEO of Global Foundation for The Medical Aid of Deprived People (GFMedAID), Managing Director of Ohize Medical Centre (OMC) among others.