By Ige Adelunle Sango-Ota (Ogun), – A 31-year-old man, Ademola Akani, was on Tuesday brought before an Ota Magistrates’ Court in Ogun, for allegedly stealing ceiling fans and other valuable items valued at N85,000 belonging to his employer. The police charged Akani, whose address was not provided with stealing. The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge. The police prosecutor, Insp E.A. Adaraloye, told the court that the defendant committed the offence on Jan. 12 at about 1.00 a.m. at Better Point Hote, Ketere, Sango-Ota. Adaraloye said the defendant, being a staff of the hotel, stole two ceiling fans and other valuable items valued at N85,000. He said the offence contravened Section 390(1) of the Criminal Code, Laws of Ogun, 2006. The Magistrate, Mrs A.O. Adeyemi, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N100,000 with one surety in like sum. Adeyemi ordered that the surety must reside within the court’s jurisdiction and be gainfully employed with evidence of tax payment to Ogun government. She adjourned the case until Feb. 23 for further hearing. (NAN) By IGE ADEKUNLESango-Ota (Ogun)- Two teenagers were on Wednesday docked in an Ota Magistrates’ Court in Ogun for allegedly breaking into a house and stealing electric wire worth  N1.3 million.The police charged Ashiru Nuhu,18, and a 15-year old with burglary, conspiracy and theft.The Prosecution Counsel, Insp E.O. Adaraloye, told the… In "News" By Ige Adekunle Sango-Ota(Ogun), - A 44-year-old unemployed man, Yunusa Ganiyi, was on Tuesday arraigned before an Ota Magistrates’ Court, Ogun, for allegedly stealing a tricycle worth N1.9 million. Ganiyi, whose address was not provided, is being charged with theft and conspiracy. The Police Prosecutor, Insp. E.O. Adaraloye, told the… In "Metro" By Ige Adekunle Sango-Ota (Ogun) - An Ota Magistrates’ Court in Ogun on Tuesday sentenced a 46-year-old man, Agu John to two months imprisonment for stealing three mobile phones and other valuable items worth N594,000. John, whose address was not provided, pleaded guilty to burglary and  theft. In her ruling,… In "Metro"