By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has reacted to the statement credited to the National chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Senator Iyorchia Ayu to the effect that the party brought shame to Nigeria, saying that it is not a gaffe but an authentic remark that comes from the abundance of his heart. But Wike clarified that the part of PDP guilty of the shame was the national leadership of the party, which he is the head. By speaking the truth about the condition of the PDP at the centre, Wike said Ayu had engaged an unpardonable height of anti-party campaign against the PDP. He said the Rivers PDP had distinguished itself as good despite the badness of Ayu-led national PDP. Wike spoke at the campaign inauguration of the Rivers State PDP Campaign Council for Eleme Local Government Area held at the Community Secondary School Field, Alode Town, Eleme on Friday. He said Ayu spoke out of the abundance of his heart, though he might want to defend it as a slip adding that the remark confirmed that as an undertaker, his likes came back to kill the PDP. Wike said: “When you see undertakers you will know those who came to kill this party. But the party will not die, they will die first. I didn’t know they are wicked to this party, no wonder they left this party and joined ACN before. “He (Ayu) said they will not allow PDP to be in power. Is that a good chairman? It that not anti-party? Is the chairman not doing anti-party. Out of the abundance of the heart the month speaks. For us in Rivers State, our own party is a good party. Our own is a party that has done Rivers State well.” Wike also spoke about the poor implementation of Naira redesign policy implementation and the socioeconomic hardship that it had caused the people. The Governor said those supporting the poorly implemented naira redesign policy were enemies of the people and the country. Wike wondered why the national leadership of the PDP, an opposition party that should always side with the people in the quest to return to power at the federal government level, would support the anti-people policy. He said that the PDP in Rivers would always side with the Nigeria masses because it could not identify and support policy that had been implemented to aggravate the suffering of the people.He said: “This is supposed to be an opposition party, is it not? A party that is supposed to identify with the masses. This is a party that is saying the ruling party is not doing well. “It is not? it means that anything that effect the masses we must be in support of the masses. Are you happy that you have money in the bank and you can’t get your money. Will you be happy? Are you happy? “Since Central Bank came with this madness, is it not affecting you. But you see my problem, instead of our party to identify with the masses, the leadership of party at the national level is now saying they are happy with what Central Bank is doing. Is that good? “Instead of us to identify with the masses who are suffering, you’re saying that you are happy with the policy that Central Bank and the cabal brought that is making us to suffer. You’re saying that it is good. We in Rivers State we will not support it.”The Rivers Governor also informed that he had reapproved the use of the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium for the PDP Presidential Campaign Council (PCC) to organise its presidential campaign. But instead of going to prepare the place for their use, Wike alleged Dr. Abiye Sekibo and Lee Maeba, led some thugs to carry out a grading work Thursday midnight on a piece of land located in Trans-Amadi Industrial Layout and owned by the State government. The Governor insisted that they must use the stadium for their rally and if they required further logistic support and service, he would gladly oblige them. Wike campaigned to the Eleme people to vote for Sir Siminialayi Fubara as the next governor of Rivers State and all PDP candidates. He assured that the forthcoming election would be the freest in the history of elections in the country.