By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Operatives drafted from the Abia State Police Command have arrested Mao Ohuabunwa, Senatorial Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party in connection with electoral related offenses. According to competent sources who pleaded anonymity, plain clothed Policemen on Saturday stormed the former Senator’s Arochukwu, Ibom Barracks Residence at about 2:30 PM shortly after the commencement of the voting exercise. Shortly after a stiff resistance from his security personnels, the Senatorial candidate was eventually taken into Custody for interrogation and subsequent prosecution. Acting on Tip off, the Police operatives in collaboration with officials of the Economic and Financial crimes (EFCC) after a thorough search discovered an unspecified amount of huge dollar bundles suspected to be used for vote buying in Today’s Senatorial elections. Asides vote buying offenses, Mao is also expected to answer questions relating to his connection with sponsorship of criminal gangs in Arochukwu who were recently arrested by the Police. In their confessional statements the suspects mentioned Mao Ohuabunwa as their Chief sponsor. Recall that Operatives of the Criminal Investigation Department, (CID) Umuahia published names of the gang members arrested in Arochukwu over serial allegations of crime and mayhem. The CID had yesterday detained four notorious criminals who specialises in robbing and causing mayhem in Arochukwu Local Government Area of the state. The four criminals led by its leader popularly known as George were first arrested by a team of police officers from Arochukwu command on Sunday afternoon before handing over to the CID Umuahia. The DPO in Arochukwu revealed that at the arrest of the members and detention, the gang leader escaped through the ceiling. Items recovered from the gang are yet to be disclosed. The whereabouts of the Senator remains unknown as the Security Operatives whisked him away also, Efforts to reach the Abia Police Public Relations Officer of the Nigerian police force has also proved abortive. Details later…