…as Senator Inspects “Ogbiti – Ukwu Amaediaba” link road By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – In advance to the forthcoming 2023 polls, the people of Bende Wards in Abia North Senatorial District have expressed gratitude to the Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu whom they said has raised their political consciousness through an avalanche of infrastructural projects he attracted to their localities. As against what they were told by their past representative(s) the constituents admitted that based on the projects initiated by Kalu representing the zone at the Senate in less than three years their mindset has been enhanced to realise that Lawmakers can do more than just formulating bills and motions. The elated constituents who converged at their various wards made this known on Wednesday while unanimously giving their backing to Kalu’s second tenure, according to them they can no longer be deceived by Politicians who hand out inducements to them in order to get their votes. Speaking through their representatives the electorates disclosed that Kalu running under the All Progressives Congress (APC) has given them the orientation to know what’s obtainable from public office holders and contesting candidates and how to hold them accountable stating that they now understood the power of the votes. Kalu in furtherance of his re-election campaign held engagements with his constituents at Nkpa wards A and B, Uzuakoli wards A and B and Umuimenyi Ward where he gave an account of his stewardship and sought their blessings for his second term bid. Former Chief Judge of Abia State, Justice S.N. Imo who spoke at “Nkpa ward A”, where Kalu had initially arrived, said that owing to Kalu’s feats his people can now decipher between deceitful and honest Politicians. The retired justice appreciated Kalu for constructing the long Nkpa road. Imo further disclosed their resolution to vote Kalu back to the Senate;“We can no longer be deceived again, because Orji Kalu has made us wiser with the kind of developments he has brought to us. With this road he has built, our community has been exposed to developments. Kalu has shown the stuff he is made of at the Senate. He has shown that he is part of us and we are united in sending him back to the Senate. Prominent Chieftain of Nkpa community, Comrade Innocent Ochiobi unveiled their community’s readiness to stand against cunning politicians running for elective positions.On projects Ochiobi also known as “Piccolo” said they have benefited from the APC through Kalu’s construction of Boreholes , Roads and other community infrastructures adding that none of its own indigenes who occupied political offices had ever done such for them. He noted that the Senator has worked so hard to ensure that they reaped Democratic dividends. Via a voice vote the community passed a vote of confidence on Kalu’s re-election.Ochiobi noted that Kalu’s administration at the Senate has made them more wiser;“We have seen what real development is all about thanks to Orji Kalu. We need to unite and get ready to send him back to the Senate. He has made us know that it is preferable to have roads and basic amenities than accepting food and money from politicians. Kalu has worked hard for us now it’s our turn to work for him. Any other candidate that comes here to campaign we will challenge him to tell us what he has done. “We have had two administrations after he left but none of them have done anything for us. Even if you have not benefited from the APC in other areas but we have benefited from the party in Npka. The community Chiefs have agreed to vote for him. More accolades came the way of Kalu at “Umuimenyi” ward, where eminent Community Leader, Philip Lucky lauded Kalu for delivering on the National Assembly assignment given to him by the community through the votes in 2019. He carpeted the People’s Democratic Party for deceiving them over the years, prior to Kalu emergence. On his re-election Philip revealed the intention of the residents to maintain Kalu’s winning streak in their polling units. Kalu was praised for his accessibility at Uzuakoli in a speech rendered by Chief Ikenna Ariwodo who said that the Lawmaker operated an open door policy which provides constituents the means of reporting their communal challenges for immediate action. Acting on a request made by Innocent Obi at Nkpa Ward B, Senator Kalu immediately undertook an on the spot assessment of the untarred “Ogbiti – Ukwu Amaediaba link road to Lohum , Enugu Expressway. Shortly after the former Governor assured to expedite action for its construction immediately he resumed at the Senate. The crowd cheered at the announcement by Kalu that they would be provided with Cassava processing machines to each village and Maize processing machines for every single community. At each of the wards the Senate Chief Whip maintained that the welfare of his constituents remains his utmost priority. Kalu unveiled his next Agenda upon his re-election to build more schools vowing to construct more roads in every nook and cranny of their communities. Kalu urged them to look out for the broom logo of his party and cast their votes by using their index fingers reiterating his pledge not to give monetary or food inducements but investing in economic lifting ventures. Each of the community expressed gratitude to Kalu for constructing of their inner link roads, school buildings, installation of over 50 Solar street lights, facilitation of employment for their indigenes, grants , distribution of learning materials among others. Stalwarts present at the rallies include Bende APC Chairman, Onwuchekwa Ulu , Ward members and executives of the APC, Reality Organisation and OUK Movement. Others include youth groups, community elders , traditional rulers, women and clerics. By EBERE AGOZIE Senator Orji Uzor Kalu ABUJA- The Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, has emerged the 2022 Best Senator of the Year in Constituency Projects Leadership Excellence Awards. In a nationwide online poll, monitored by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Kalu, who is representing… In "News" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Constituents of Eleoha, Ikwun and Abam wards have resolved to strengthen their trust in the legislative stewardship of Senator Orji Kalu representing their Senatorial district, Abia-North at the National Assembly citing his ability to expedite iconic developmental projects and human capacity empowerment in… In "Top Stories" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Aside from the presiding Senator representing Abia-North, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, other contestants seeking to represent the zone at the National Assembly in the forthcoming February 25th polls have been described as "Jesters" by electorates of Nneato. According to the people, they were… In "Politics"