By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Chairman House Committee on Navy and member representing Pankshin/Kanke/Kanam (PKK), Federal Constituency, APC Plateau State, Hon. Yusuf Adamu Gagdi has said that both the Peoples Democratic Party PDP and the Labour Party, are both drinking from the water boreholes he dug all across the Constituency. Gagdi said the West African Examination (WAEC) fees paid for three years as well as NECO and JAMB fees, were all thrown open to all students whose parents belong to different political parties. “As a representative of the people I knew it was time for governance and not politics”, he said to the people of his Constituency popularly known as PKK. Gagdi stated this on Friday during the flag-off of his re-election campaign, held in Pankshin Local Government Area of the State. According to him: “After I won in 2019 to represent the people of PKK, I dropped party politics to accommodate all. I was elected to serve my Constituency and not my party members”, he said. He called on the people of PKK to vote for all candidates seeking to win election in the zone, saying that the All Progressive Congress has performed beyond expectations in the zone and Plateau State at large. The federal lawmaker also called on electorates, to vote the APC governorship candidate in the State, Dr. Nentawe Goshwe to continue the legacies of Governor Simon Lalong, saying that Lalong inherited the State from the PDP when the former governor Jonah Jang was owing over eight months salaries, with numerous uncompleted projects and insecurity all over the State. “I am proud to be called Lalong boy. He has supported me through my journey of political destiny. We need to tell the Plateau People that Lalong took over the State when civil servants were being owed over eight months salaries. “Lalong also returned peace to the Plateau. Don’t forget that when the Governor took over people couldn’t move from one village to another because of insecurity. “I call on everyone to vote for all the Governor’s candidates in the 2023 general elections”, Gagdi said. Speaking earlier, Nentawe said Gagdi has put smiles on the faces of the people of his Constituency, adding that the PKK will not forget the lawmaker in a hurry as he has left an indelible mark. Governor Lalong who was also at the event, mocked the former governor Jonah Jang for leading a factional party in the State. Lalong said Jang who is supporting the G5 governors is confused as the G5 is rooting for the APC presidential candidate, Ahmed Bola Tinubu.