Lagos – A Nigeria man,  Emeka Okoli, his wife and their two children were among the nine passenger when a container-laden truck fell on a commercial bus at Ojuelegba bridge in Lagos on January 29, 2023. Their identities were confirmed earlier this month by family members and colleagues. A Facebook user who said the victim was her cousin, took to the platform to mourn him. “I have been holding myself since yesterday to make this tears post, reason because I don’t want to believe this heart broken news in our families till we see my cousin and his family dead bodies. And finally today finally we confirm Emeka and his family are dead ,see them lying helplessly here at Mortuary In Yaba,” Oge Petra Okafor Nalue, wrote. “Nigeria happened to us. Death did us dirty on Sunday at Ojuelegba lagos. Nnaa you went to church on Sunday with your family ,your wife prepared Sunday food that you guys will eat when you come back from church but life happens, death came and block your way from coming home alive. God we don’t need to question you ,but how I wish one person survived, it could have been better. Container loaded with goods decided to wipe away this lovely family. Rest in peace Bro and wify. Rest in people ifechukwu and chidobelu. God if it pleases you , we accept it by faith.”she added By AISHA COLE A picture of fallen container that claimed nine lives on Sunday at Ojuelegba. LAGOS- The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on behalf of the people and government, sympathised with the families of those who died on Sunday in the Ojuelegba truck accident. The Commissioner for Transportation, Mr… In "News" By HENRY OLADELE/FLORENCE ONUEGBU LAGOS- The Governor of Lagos State, Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Monday ordered the immediate prosecution of the truck owner and the driver that claimed the lives of nine persons at Ojuelegba area of the state. Sanwo-Olu, in a statement issued by the Lagos State Commissioner for… In "News" “Save as may be prescribed by the Commissioner by Regulation, no trailer other than petrol tankers and long vehicles used in conveying passengers, shall enter into or travel within the metropolis of Lagos between the hours of 6.00am – 9.00pm.” This is what section 2(1) of the Lagos State Road… In "News"