ABUJA (Press Release) The Obi-Datti Media Office is aware of the new focus of the faltering Presidential campaign of the All Progressive Congress (APC)candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, which is the planned launch of a multi-million naira media campaign, dubbed “Killer Punch”, aimed at spreading lies aboutthe Labour Party Presidential candidate, Mr Peter Obi. Having failed in all their plans to win the February 25 election, and seeing their campaign derailing on all fronts, Tinubu’s media handlers led by the trio of Femi Fani-Kayode, Festus Keyamo, SAN and Adamu Garba are set to release a video they term “Killer Punch.” Already, they have been releasing snippets of the documentary on social media, without getting any attention, as people already know about their desperation to drag down Obi, who they rightly know, is far ahead. These documentary of lies and falsehood, which they have fabricated, attempt to portray Mr Obi as a drug peddler, killer and sexual pervert among other innuendos in their fertile imagination. Already, the Obi-Datti Media Office is aware, that they are a product of a strategy session between Tinubu and selected members of his media team, where Tinubu reportedly accused his media handlers of not “punching to knock out” and not doing enough, to halt Obi’s unprecedented progress. He, therefore, demanded more wild propaganda from them against his opponents, especially Obi, with the objective of throwing anything at the opponents to win, regardless of ethics or morality. We will continue to be amused over the desperation, to search for faults on the Presidential front runner, and their apparent frustration of not finding any. The LP standard bearer has remained the most fact-checked, among the four top Presidential candidates, for the obvious reasons, that he is the only one running an issues-driven campaign, and therefore provoking intellectual conversations, and gaining more supporters, daily, nationwide. But as election day draws nearer, and the reality of their impending defeat heightens, their anger and frustration are also on the rise. This instruction of a faltering presidential candidate to his media team to bring down the Labour Party flag bearer at all cost is a clear indication of their hopelessness. We at the Obi-Datti Media Campaign Office have all the details of their machinations, including some anti-Obi persons, already contacted for a role in the so called ‘Killer Punch’ documentary’, and also the release of N500m for this failed smear campaign. International media recently did a comprehensive check on the fake news generated on the LP flag bearer, which highlighted designs to cast aspersions on this new awakening , that beckons from Nigeria and indeed Africa. Just a few weeks ago, in the South East, some hirelings had recorded a fake video, where some gunmen pretended to be punishing a man for wearing a Peter Obi T-shirt, while the image was actually that of a PDP candidate, Peter Mbah, but the doctored video was misrepresented to refer to Peter Obi. Another sponsored video is also going round, dishing out libellous and unsubstantiated lies against Obi’s clearly outstanding eight-year tenure as Governor of Anambra State. Clearly, these will not be the last of the despicable media lies and falsehood. Our mission this day, is to alert and warn discerning minds, especially those desirous to see a new Nigeria emerge through Peter Obi, to ignore and treat as thrash any doctored and faked media items on Obi. The Obi-Datti Media Office will continue to expose their deceptive actions, which have roundly failed, since our candidate has demonstrated unequivocally that he is the best man for the job. In all presentations, assessments and polls, he has clearly outclassed his peers, in the required character, capacity, competence and capabilities, to provide a new direction of change and leadership, as desired by the people. We assure the Nigerian people and our supporters in Nigeria and globally of our candidate’s unflinching focus on this month’s election and the impossibility of any distraction, regardless of all machinations Finally, our candidate, his deputy and all in the Obidient Movement, are too busy in this rescue mission to give attention to worthless lies and their equally cheap purveyors. The elections are just a few weeks away. As Obi-Datti is growing by each second, let’s keep working hard, for the victory that will change our country, for good. Diran OnifadeHead of MediaObi-Datti Presidential Campaign Council .