By YAKUBU UBA MAIDUGURI- Police in Borno confirmed on Tuesday in Maiduguri that they have received nine Amoured Personnel Carriers (APC) from the state government. Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Abdu Umar gave the confirmation while thanking Gov. Babagana Zulum for the support. Umar, who came with the last consignment of the nine APCs to show the governor, said the development would go a long way in enhancing police’s capacity to combat crime in the state. “Thank you for all the support you are giving the police to effectively perform their role of ensuring law and order in Borno and in Nigeria in general,’’ Umar said. Responding, Gov. Zulum commended the police for their performance in Borno and assured them of sustained support including provision of more APCs. Zulum lauded the Federal Government led by President Muhammadu Buhari for the restoration of peace and stability in Borno. He said the military and other security agencies deserved commendation for sacrifices made to ensure that peace and security were restored in the state. Zulum said the state government would meet with the military after the 2023 general elections to identify areas liberated from terrorists in Borno. The areas would be handed over to the police for the restoration of full civilian authority, the governor added. (NAN) By YAKUBU UBA MAIDUGURI- The Police Command in Borno has sealed up the State Secretariat of the New Nigerian People’s Party (NNPP), the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports.A correspondent, who visited the secretariat located at Abbaganaram area in Maiduguri, met it sealed with Armoured Personnel Carrier vehicle parked at… In "Metro" By Rabiu Sani Maiduguri, - The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Babagana Zullum, has won 13 of the 27 local government areas in Borno, as election result collation in the Saturday governorship election is progressing in the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that collation… In "Politics" By Yakubu Uba Maiduguri -.  Gov. Babagana Zulum of Borno has met with families of policemen and members of Civilian Joint Task Force ( CJTF) killed by insurgents in an ambush on Friday in Borno. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that several security personnel were killed with some… In "News"