By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The All Progressive Congress (APC), in Plateau State, has inaugurated it’s campaign directorates in the State ahead of the 2023 governorship elections. A statement signed on Thursday by the APC party Spokesman in Plateau, Hon. Sylvanus Namang, stated that the directorates were inaugurated by the State Chairman of the party Hon. Rufus Bature. The inauguration was mainly for the heads of Directorates for the campaign council numbering 16 man council, the statement said. Bature after the inauguration charged them to go out and campaign vigorously for the party to win the elections from top to bottom. Expression optimism that the APC will win the forthcoming governorship election, the party’s governorship candidate, Dr Nentawe Goshwe mocked the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), for being factionalised both at the federal and State level. “The main opposition party has different factions and groups while the APC has remained intact and is going into the election as a united front”, Nentawe said. He lauded the APC State Chairman, Bature for consolidating the party at the ward, local government and State levels. He however also dismissed in its entirety insinuations that there is infighting between him and the party Chairman. Earlier, the State Chairman had also said while other parties want to reclaim power, the APC wants to retain power, adding that there is no vacancy at the Government House in 2023, as the party would use its numerical strength to win the election. Also, the State guber candidate expressed confident that the party is going to win the election given the efforts put in place by the party and his team. “We are going to leave no stone unturned and with God on our side, we are going to win as we have the people behind us”, he said. According to him: “The list of campaign Directorates unveiled were made after a tripartite Committee set up by the Governor who is the leader of the party in the State. “The Directorates have been carefully formed to accommodate all interests. “All my activities have the express approval of the governor and the party. “These include the thank you visits to all the LGAs and the citizens engagement. “The engagement which other parties are now copying but who cannot meet our standard were very fruitful as we have put the name of APC on all the streets of Plateau. “We had citizen engagement and we were able to talk to the people across board including traditional rulers, religious leaders, development associations, trade unions, market women, youth and women groups and civil society organisations”, Nentawe said. The APC however revealed that it will soon flag off its governorship campaign in Wase Southern zone of the State, to be followed by Central and Norrhern Senatorial Districts of the State.