By JOSEPH EDEH ABUJA- The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)  in Benue South Senatorial District has endorsed the presidential candidate of the PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar for the Feb.25 presidential election. This is contained in a statement by Mr Paul Mumeh, Special Adviser on Media to the former senate President, David Mark on Thursday in Abuja. Mumeh said the decision was taken after a meeting in Otukpo, the traditional headquarters of the Idoma people. The Adviser said the decision by the party  was  based on the premise that their interest would be better served under an Abubakar presidency. He said that the party members distanced themselves from those campaigning for candidates of other political parties. According to Mumeh, they said they cannot be members of the PDP and be seen to be working for candidates of other political parties. “They urged all party members not to be distracted by the antics of a few but should go all out to vote for candidates of the PDP in the Feb.25 and March 11elections. Mumeh said  Mark urged members to be faithful to the party  because it would  make no sense for them  to be jumping from one party to the other. He said political parties are vehicles for achieving ones political ambition and must be held sacrosanct by obeying the rules and regulations. Mark said that those who jump from one party to the other  are people without conviction or do not know what they really want. Also speaking, the senator representing Benue South, Sen. Abba Moro urged the party members  to remain steadfast with the party. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the senatorial district comprised  the  nine local government areas of the Idoma land.(NAN) By EMMANUEL OLONIRUHA Alhaji Atiku Abubakar ABUJA- A chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) says the party’s Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, will get 65 per cent of Benue State votes. Mr Abraham Chila, who is a grassroots mobiliser expressed the optimism while speaking with newsmen on Sunday in Abuja. He… In "Politics" PDP member Adakole Ijogi ABUJA - A member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Adakole Ijogi, said the Middle Belt Forum has directed the people of the area to vote for the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi. He also said he would vote for the former Anambra… In "Politics" By SUNDAY JOHN Alhaji Atiku Abubakar NASARAWA STATE- Ahead of the 2023 general elections, Nasarawa State Chapter of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has vowed it will deliver the state to Atiku Abubakar, Presidential candidate of the party.Leaders of the party in the state stated this on Thursday at Awe Local… In "Politics"