By ADELEYE ADEYEMI LAGOS- The Lagos State PDP Deputy Governorship Candidate, Ms Funke Akindele says residents will experience visible turnaround in 100 days of the party’s Governorship Candidate, Dr Abdul-Azeez Adediran (Jandor), if elected. Akindele gave this assurance while meeting with the PDP’s Market Coordinators across the 20 Local Government Areas (LGAs). She also gave assistance to traders allegedly treated unfairly for supporting the main opposition party during campaign. “We are out to rescue Lagos. We appreciate your perseverance in standing firm after being intimidated and oppressed for supporting us. By the Grcae of God, our sufferings will end after the poll. “By the power of God, within the first 100 days of Jandor, we shall begin to see positive changes and turnaround in Lagos State. We are working hard to change the story of hardship in Lagos State. “I congratulate you, it is not easy to be bold and face difficulties that you are going through. You are brave and courageous to have done this and stood for us. Don’t be tired. “Fear limits people and hinders them from where they are supposed to get to. So, don’t feel bad, don’t be afraid, don’t give up, be stronger, bolder and fight to the end, because it is possible to get tired at this last minute,” she said. Akindele said that residents had every right to support the party of their choice without being intimidated in a democracy. According to her, Adediran is compassionate and has listening ears, and he is concerned about the plights of the people. “We are here to share the little we have with you for the losses you suffered and it is not going to be one off. “There is light at the end of the tunnel, Jandor will be the governor of Lagos State and there will be a positive change in Lagos,” she added. She urged the traders to move into every corner and street to mobilise voters, saying the electorate should make the right choices during the election. One of the beneficiaries, Mrs Idowu Adeniyi popularly known as Iyalaya, commended the candidates for the support given the traders. Another beneficiary, Mr Sulaimon Sakariya applauded the candidates for not abandoning the PDP faithful to their plights. (NAN)