ABAKALIKI – Two days before the presidential polls, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State, has allegedly dumped its presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu (BAT), and adopted the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Mr. Peter Obi as its candidate ahead of the Saturday polls. This is based on sensitisation materials sighted in circulation to members of the party in the State endorsing Peter Obi as president, Engr David Umahi for Ebonyi South Senate as well as Engr Felix Igboke for Ohanivo Federal Constituency. “2023 GENERAL ELECTION/VOTING SENSITIZATION FOREBONYI SOUTH. “I am voting Peter Obi 4 President, I am voting Engr David Nweze Umahi 4 senate (Ebonyi South), I am voting Engr Felix Igboke 4 Federal House of Representatives (Ohanivo).” the sensitisation materials stated. Sample of the sensitisation material that APC agents are sharing in the stateSources in the state Confirms that the Labour Party is the party to beat and the action of the APC can best be described as “act aimed at self preservation.” A chieftain of the APC in Ezza North Local Government Area of the state told our correspondent that this is a last minute effort by the party to try and win the National Assembly elections in the state. “We’re in dilemma as a party because of the popularity of the presidential candidate of the Labour Party in our state,” the Chieftain who prefers to be anonymous said. “This is basically a self-preservation effort. Our election is on the same day with the presidential election. Our agents across the state have been told to move the sensitization material you talked about to all the nooks and crannies of the state. “The people wants to vote LP in the presidential election but because of the level of electoral education, if you don’t do this, there will be a mob vote as the people will tend to vote Labour Party in all positions. “So, like I told you, we’re making this last minute effort to avoid being embarrassed because of uneducated voters. They want us but because of the enthusiasm to vote for Peter Obi, they will mistakenly vote LP in all ballots.”