By FEMI OGUNSHOLA ABUJA- The House of Representatives say it will reconvene before the Feb. 25 elections, if the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) fails to address the hardships Nigerians are facing following the currency swap policy.The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, said this in a statement issued in Abuja by Mr Lanre Lasisi, his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity.He said the house would continue to monitor the CBN’s implementation of the policy closely following the Green Chamber’s meeting with the CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, on the issue.Gbajabiamila said he was on the verge of signing an arrest warrant against Emefiele, following his initial failure to appear before an ad hoc panel of the House.“The House of Representatives intervened on several occasions. We summoned the CBN governor the first time and again, but he refused to answer, because we had many hard questions for him.“It was until I issued the threat of warrant of arrest before he came, and I would have signed that warrant,” he said.He said it would have been the first time in the history of the National Assembly that a CBN governor would be arrested, adding that he will have done it.He said many have argued on the independence of CBN, the autonomy of CBN, adding that it did not make CBN above the law.He said the constitution gave the House the power to issue an arrest warrant against anyone.“We can summon anybody and that was exactly what the House was going to do until the CBN governor came.“So, we are watching, and we are monitoring very closely. If need be, we will reconvene the House, even though we have been away for our elections. I will call the House back, if need be,” he said.Gbajabiamila said amidst the ongoing hardship, the Presidential candidate of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has identified with Nigerians and faulted the implementation of the policy.According to him, it has necessitated the extension of the deadline for the collection of the old currency. (NAN) Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Speaker of the House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila says the lawmakers may reconvene if the hardship occasioned by the naira swap continues.  While the lawmakers are on break and are expected to resume after the general elections, the scarcity of the new naira notes and… In "Top Stories" The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has threatened to issue a warrant of arrest on the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele if he fails to appear before its committee investigating th The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has threatened to… In "News" Speaker of House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila has denied reports that he spent public funds on his mother’s birthday party in Dubai. Femi Gbajabiamila denies spending public funds on mother’s birthday party in Dubai lailasnews SaharaReporters had yesterday claimed that the Speaker flew 300 guests to the location of the… In "News"