By DIANA OMUEZA ABUJA- Action Alliance (AA) party has endorsed the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and its Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, for the Feb. 25 general elections. This is contained in a statement signed on Sunday in Abuja by Mr James Vernimbe, the party’s National Secretary. Vernimbe said that the endorsement was made during PDP’s mega rally in Yola, Adamawa state. According to him, the endorsement was informed and agreed after critical consultation with the party’s hierarchy and state chairmen. “AA has joined some other parties to endorse PDP and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, and Senator Ifeanyi Okowa for the 25 February, 2023, presidential election. “The event was led by the party’s National chairman, Chief Barr Kenneth Udeze, accompanied by the National Secretary of the party, Vernimbe A James, with Six North East state chairmen of the party in attendance. “What led to the endorsement is that our presidential candidate, Hamza Almustapha, is not contesting to win. “Since 9 June, 2022, that he emerged as presidential candidate of the party till 16 February 2023, there have been no flag-off campaigns any where, no poster any where indicating his presence in the presidential race. “And Atiku Abubakar is the only candidate that has assured us of forming the government of national unity where other political parties will be accommodated because what we have today in Nigeria is winner takes all,” he said. Vernimbe said that the endorsement was done in the presence of the state chairmen of Bauchi, Gombe, Taraba, Yobe and the Adamawa state Secretaries representing the state chairmen, Representative of Borno and party chieftain from Bauchi State. (NAN) Alhaji Atiku Abubakar (left) with Hon.Yakubu Dogara ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - A socio-political group, the Southern and Middle–Belt Alliance (SaMBA) has described a purported  endorsement of the presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) by former Speaker of House Representative, Yakubu Dogara’s group as self serving. In a statement released… In "Politics" By DIANA OMUEZA Senator Phillip Aduda ABUJA- The Action Alliance (AA) has denied the purported endorsement of Sen. Philip Aduda of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Senatorial seat in 2023 general election.This is contained in a statement signed on Wednesday in Abuja, by Mrs… In "Politics" By Moses Omorogieva     Lagos   -        The National Conscience Party (NCP) says Wednesday’s endorsement of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar by Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) as consensus candidate for 2019 election was an affront to the spirit of the alliance. NCP National Publicity Secretary and member, Coalition… In "Politics"