By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Hon. Ebere Nwankwo, the House of Assembly candidate for Umunneochi State Constituency under the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), has openly endorsed the re-election bid of Senator Orji Uzor Kalu. Nwankwo popularly known as Ebere Umunneochi did the open declaration on Sunday at Obinolu ward in Isuochi, Umunneochi Local Government Area during the senator’s campaign visit to the area. According to him, Kalu’s outstanding performance within three years as Abia North Senator is the best in the history of the state. He stated that he was proud of identifying with Kalu despite their party affiliations, noting that as a progressive youth, he is proud of Kalu’s achievements especially in Umunneochi Local Government Area. He highlighted Kalu’s achievements which included construction of rural roads, installation of street lights, sinking of boreholes, renovation of schools and health centres, youths and women empowerment among others. “This is not about party, but as a progressive youth, it is good we say the truth, because you have performed beyond expectations. I am proud of your achievements and I want to openly identify with you and endorse you for re-election in 2023.” Responding, Kalu said he remains committed to serving the people. He appreciated Nwankwo for the open endorsement vowing to do more for the people. “I appreciate you for your open endorsement. I am one person that is committed to serving my people. It’s my calling to serve my people and I am willing to do more. In life, we have all made mistakes including me. I have made my own mistakes and everyday I keep praying to God for a second chance. This senate is a chance I am equally using to rewrite history and I am willing to serve the people better when re-elected.” By IKENNA UWADILEKE Senator Orji Uzor Kalu ABUJA- A group under the aegis of Abia Stakeholders for Peace and Development (ANSPEN), has appealed to political parties in Abia not to field candidates against the Chief Whip of the Senate, Sen. Orji Kalu. The group is made up of traditional rulers,… In "Politics" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Constituents of Umunneochi local government area of Abia North, Abia state have again become beneficiaries of another road project currently being executed in their Senatorial district as facilitated by the Senator representing the zone at the National Assembly, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu. The… In "News" Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Former Abia governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) Dr. Alex Otti over the weekend met with the Chief Whip of the Senate, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, and former National Chairman of APGA, Chief Victor Umeh. The outcome of the meeting which was held… In "Top Stories"