By Thompson YamputLokoja, – The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Kogi Sector Command on Friday decorated 80 of its promoted officers. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports in Lokoja that eight Deputy Corps Commanders (DCCs) were among the new officers decorated in a ceremony held at the Sector Command. FRSC Corps Marshall Dauda Biu charged the promoted officers to live up to expectations. Represented by the Zonal Commander, FRSC, Mr Uche Omeje, the corps marshal, regretted the situation whereby some personnel could be stagnant for years before being promoted. “Today, the situation had changed for the better as this event is taking place simultaneously across the 36 states of the federation. “Your responsibilities have changed and you must live up to the task before you and do the corps proud in your service to the nation. “I implore you not to take your promotion for granted but be serious, especially when you remember where you are coming from before your present rank,” he said. While congratulating the officers, Biu admonished other officers to wait for their time and never to feel depressed. Earlier, in his welcome address, Kogi FRSC Sector Commander Stephen Dawulung, said that their promotion had made the sector proud, considering the number of personnel promoted. Dawulung thanked the corps marshal and his management team for promoting the officers. It is Worthy to note that, this is the first time in Kogi sector command, three Corp Commanders are being decorated at the same time, it is a sign of new things to come to Kogi and FRSC at large. “Promotion is one of the moral boosters in public service. All of you should be prepared to take up higher challenges and responsibilities at different levels to justify the promotions. “For those that are not promoted, you should not be discouraged because more promotion exercise is coming,” he said. Responding on behalf of the decorated officers, CC Ngozi Ezeoma, expressed gratitude to God and the management of FRSC for finding them worthy of the promotion. Ezeoma said: “We are aware of the responsibility this promotion and decorations meant to us and by God’s grace, we shall not fail the corps nor our nation but give our best”.(NAN)