By ADELEYE ADEYEMI LAGOS- Four political parties in Lagos State on Thursday announced endorsement of the APC Presidential Candidate, Sen. Bola Tinubu and his running mate, Sen. Kashim Shettima, in Saturday’s General Elections. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the political parties are the National Rescue Mission (NRM), Action Peoples Party (APP), Zenith Labour Party ( ZLP), and Allied Peoples Movement (APM). Speaking at the endorsement ceremony in Ikeja, the Spokesman for the group, Mrs Temilola Akinade, said that the political parties decided to endorse Tinubu because of his track records and belief in federalism. Akinade, the Lagos State Chairman of NRM, said: “We are here massively to endorse Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as our Presidential Candidate on Saturday. He is the man that we want, he is the man of the people. “We believe he is the man that can take us to the Nigeria of everyone’s dream. Four political parties and their senatorial and federal house of representatives candidates are here supporting Tinubu. “Sen. Bola Tinubu is a preacher of State Police which will bring about peace and stability in the country and also combat insecurity in the land. ” Tinubu believes in equity and justice. He is a man that believes in one Nigeria. We know too well that when he becomes the next President, the economy of the nation will be better,” she said. Also, Mrs Adeyemi Abiola, the Chairman, Action Peoples Party (APP) disclosed that the party and its five House of Representatives and one Senatorial Candidate were supporting Tinubu and other APC candidates at the Presidential and National Assembly Elections. According to her, the party took the step for the sake of better Nigeria. “We are supporting Tinubu because of his good past record. He has done well in Lagos State as former governor and senator. We love him because he has strategies to move Nigeria forward. “We have seen what he has done, and we believe he can do more at a time when Nigeria needs someone to give them hope. We believe in him and we know he can do better,” Abiola said. She said that APP House of Representatives Candidate in Ojo, Amuwo-Odofin, Lagos Island, Mushin Federal Constituencies and the Lagos West Senatorial candidate had endorsed Tinubu. Also speaking, Mr Adenipekun Mode-Adekunle, the ZLP Chairman and Governorship Candidate, said that nine of the party House of Representatives and two senatorial candidates were stepping down to support Tinubu and APC Candidates in the Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly Elections. Mode-Adekunle said that the party’s 10 House of Representatives Candidates except that of the Amuwo-Odofin Federal Constituency, as well as senatorial candidates for Lagos West and Lagos Central. He said that majority of the contestants on the party’s platforms chose to endorse Tinubu, saying that the former Lagos State governor, remained the best to resuscitate the economy.(NAN) By EMMANUEL MOGBEDE Senator Bola Tinubu, Senator Kashim Shettima ABUJA- The All Progressives Congress (APC) Professionals’ Forum has promised to galvanise professionals within and outside the country to support the Tinubu/Shettima presidential ticket for a resounding election victory in 2023.Dr Nkem Okeke, the forum’s Board of Trustees (BoT) Acting Chairman… In "Politics" By EMMANUEL MOGBEDE ABUJA- An interest group, GYB Network 4 Asiwaju, on Tuesday in Abuja, said it would ensure massive mobilisation of voters across Kogi and beyond to enthrone a Tinubu-Shettima presidency in 2023.The group’s Coordinator in Kogi, Alhaji Haddy Ametuo, who gave the pledge in a statement issued in Abuja,… In "Politics" By PETER AMINE Governor Atiku Bagudu JOS- Gov. Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi has said that President Muhammadu Buhari’s performance in the last seven years compelled governors of other political parties to defect to All Progressives Congress (APC). Bagudu, who is the Chairman, Progressive Governors Forum, stated this in on Tuesday… In "Politics"