By BUSAYO ONIJALA LAGOS- Catholic Bishops from Africa, known as the Symposium of Episcopal Conferences of Africa and Madagascar (SECAM), has appointed new presidential council members. This is contained in a statement by SECAM, made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. SECAM, in the statement, said that members of its Standing Committee gathered at its secretariat in Accra, Ghana, from February 14 to 17 in an extraordinary meeting. This meeting, it said, is aimed at two main objectives, including to address the situation of vacancies at SECAM, and to study and approve the SECAM Strategic Plan 2022-2025. “Observing the provisions of Articles 12 and 13 of chapter IV of the SECAM By-Laws, we confirmed the immediate past Vice-President, Fridolin Cardinal Ambongo for the position of President, replacing the late Richard Cardinal Baawobr. “We did same to Most Rev. Lucio Andrice Muandula from the position of Second Vice-President to the position of First Vice-President. “We elected Most Rev. Stephen Dami Mamza, Bishop of the Diocese of Yola in Nigeria, as the Second Vice- President and confirmed Most Rev. Gabriel Edoe Kumordji as the Treasurer, SECAM,” the statement said. It was also noted in the statement that the presidential council was recomposed taking into consideration the SECAM linguistic representations, French, Portuguese and English. (NAN) By BUSAYO ONIJALA Late Richard Cardinal Baawobr LAGOS- Bishop Emmanuel Badejo of the Catholic Diocese of Oyo has described the late Richard Cardinal Baawobr, the President of the Catholic Bishops  in Africa,  also known as the Symposium of Episcopal Conferences of Africa and Madagascar (SECAM),  as a symbol of great hope to the… In "News" Pope Francis has appointed Bishop Emmanuel Badejo of the Catholic Diocese of Oyo to the Vatican Dicastery for Communications. The appointment was announced in a statement made available by Rev. Fr. John Irekiigbe, the Director of Communications, Oyo Diocese, to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday. NAN reports… In "News" By Ismaila Chafe Abuja - President Muhammadu Buhari has sent a personally signed goodwill message to Ignatius Kaigama, as he gets formally installed as Catholic Archbishop of Abuja. A statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in Abuja on Thursday, said the President rejoiced with… In "News"