By ISMAILA CHAFE ABUJA- President Muhammadu Buhari has met behind closed doors with governors elected under the platform of the All Progressive Congress (APC) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the agenda of the meeting was not officially made known to newsmen as at the time of filing this report. NAN, however, gathered that some national issues including the ongoing currency swap, fuel shortages in some parts of the country and their possible effects on the February and March general elections might have been discussed at the meeting. Some of the governors in attendance include the Chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum and Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu, governors of Ebonyi, Dave Umahi, Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Imo, Hope Uzodimma. Others are those of Zamfara, Bello Matawale; Ogun, Dapo Abiodun; Yobe, Mai Bala-Buni; Kaduna, Nasir El-Rufai; Kano, Abdullahi Ganduje; Abdulrahman AbdulRazaq, Kwara, ; Niger, Sani Bello among others. (NAN) President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday observed the Ju’maat prayers with six state governors from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The six governors, all from the north thereafter accompanied him to his residence where they met behind closed doors. Those in attendance included Nasir El-Rufai… In "Top Stories" ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - A chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade Timi Frank, has described as an act of insensitivity to the plight of Nigerians a call made by seven governors of the party on President Muhammadu Buhari to seek re-election. Frank, who is the APC Deputy… In "Politics" President Muhammadu Buhari, Thursday met with six State Governors at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The Governors who met with the President include, Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State (PDP), Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State (PDP), Simeon Lalong of Plateau State (APC), Abdulaziz Yari of Kebbi State (APC), Atiku Bagudu of… In "Politics"