By Ibironke AriyoAbuja, – The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) says it is deploying a total of 21,783 personnel and 941 patrol vehicles, ambulances, heavy and light tow trucks for the forthcoming general election. The Corps Marshal, Dauda Biu said this in a statement issued by the Corps Public Education Officer, Assistant Corps Marshal Bisi Kazeem, on Friday in Abuja. Biu said that the deployment was to ensure smooth, hitchfree and very successful 2023 Presidential and National Assembly elections on Feb. 25. He said that the FRSC being a member of the Inter Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security would work alongside other security agencies to ensure orderliness and timely delivery of election materials. “769 patrol vehicles, 139 ambulances and 33 heavy, medium and light duty tow Trucks would be deployed. “21,783 personnel would also be deployed for the 2023 Presidential and National Assembly elections, ” he said. Biu in his pre-election directive to operatives, spelt out their duties and responsibilities during the elections. He said the responsibilities include enforcement of restriction of movement order through prompt blockage of roads to prevent unauthorised movement across polling units and monitoring conduct of the elections. Biu added that the operatives would monitor unfolding events in collaboration with other security agencies at the Joint Operations Room domiciled at the Force Headquarters, as well as police headquarters in various states. “This is to ensure robust intelligence gathering and sharing for quick and necessary response and intervention. “Screening and accreditation of vehicles hired by INEC from road transport unions for conveyance of sensitive and non-sensitive materials. “And ensuring orderliness at polling units and countering activities that could undermine the election.” The FRSC boss, therefore charged the marshals to carry out their duties diligently. He directed Commanding Officers to ensure prompt deployment of patrol and other operational vehicles and proper monitoring of the exercise. The corps marshal charged the personnel to be highly professional and civil in carrying out their duties as the nation expected nothing less from them at this critical time of the general election. (NAN) By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Federal Road Safety Corps Marshal, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi has approved the deployment of 33,000 personnel, both regular and special marshals and other logistics to address wrong road usage by motorists which results in high number of Road Traffic Crashes (RTCs) during festivities and… In "News" By Johnson Eyiangho Abuja   -    The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) says it is deploying 33,000 personnel and 859 vehicles for a nationwide special patrol during the Sallah to ensure free flow of traffic and check accidents. Mr Bisi Kazeem, the Corps Public Education Officer of the FRSC made this… In "Metro" Abuja   -  President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to, on Monday, to inaugurate operational vehicles, tow trucks and ambulances for the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) . This is contained in a statement signed by Mr Bisi Kazeem, Head, Media Relations and Strategy, FRSC on Saturday in Abuja. The statement… In "Top Stories"