Barely 24 hours to the National Assembly elections on Saturday, February 25, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State has suspended its Abia North senatorial candidate in the elections, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, from the party. Kalu is a former governor of the State and incumbent Senator representing Abia North in the Senate as well as a principal officer of the Senate. The decision of the party was contained in a letter jointly signed by its Disciplinary Committee chairman, Barr. Paul Nwabuisi; state secretary of the party, Chief Chidi Avaja, and party chairman, Dr Kingsley Ononogbu. According to the letter, the suspension was with immediate effect. A copy of the letter, which was made available to LEADERSHIP on Friday in Umuahia, the State capital, accused Kalu, who is the Senate Chief Whip, of anti-party activities. “The suspension is as a result of thorough investigations and recommendations of the disciplinary committee set up by Igbere Ward A, Bende LGA and the leadership of the party,” the letter said. The letter, entitled ‘Notification on Suspension’ which was addressed to the Senator, said the action “is in consonance with Article 21b (i-v) of the Constitution of the party. “Note that the party is highly committed to her integrity and as such will not condone any of these afore-stated acts and other forms of anti-party activities.” The letter, which was copied to the national chairman of APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, added that “having evidence substantial enough for your suspension, the integrity of the party must be protected.” LEADERSHIP recalls that the development in Abia State chapter of the APC might be unconnected to Senator Kalu’s recent TV interview, where he openly said that he cannot endorse the State governorship candidate of the party against his own blood brother contesting for same position on the platform of another political party. By IKENNA UWADILEKE Senator Orji Uzor Kalu ABUJA- A group under the aegis of Abia Stakeholders for Peace and Development (ANSPEN), has appealed to political parties in Abia not to field candidates against the Chief Whip of the Senate, Sen. Orji Kalu. The group is made up of traditional rulers,… In "Politics" Senate Chief Whip Orji Uzor Kalu on Sunday night paid a solidarity visit to a contestant for All Progressives Congress(APC) chairmanship, Senator Sani Musa, ahead of the February 26 National Convention of the party. The former Abia Governor said he was at the Maitama residence of the Senate Service Committee… In "Politics" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Opeyemi Bamidele of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the election in in Ekiti central senatorial district. With 94,279 votes, Bamidele defeated Obafemi Adewale of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who polled a total of 48,707 votes. Bamidele was a member… In "Politics"