Popularity isn’t exactly quantifiable, but iLOT Bet brand is the talk of the town when it comes to the sports betting and lottery business; best when it comes to giving remarkable odds, flexible online betting site and updated news. Son has already had nine shots and produced 17 crosses in his three appearances. The South Korean international may not be making the impact supporters expect, but it is only three games into the season and he already has an influence on the game. There was an improved display from the 30-year-old against Wolves, with his corner being flicked on by Ivan Perisic and then knocked into the net by Harry Kane. However, Son hasn’t been at his imperious best. The attacker shared the golden boot award with Mohamed Salah last season and went from strength to strength, with his personal achievements and his on-field relationship with the England captain. However, these high expectations haven’t been met in the first few games of the new campaign. Son became the second to receive the Puskas Award in 2020. Most recently, he became the only Asian to be nominated for the 2022 Ballon d’Or, the highest honor in football. But it’s not just his actions on the field that have set Son apart in the pantheon of Korean sporting legends. Son now gets the same treatment as the biggest K-pop stars. While there are a number of official Tottenham Hotspur supporters’ clubs in Korea, there are also Son-specific fan clubs with tens of thousands of members. When spurs came to Korea in July, tickets to the two games sold out in minutes. Son’s uniform has even become so ubiquitous that it can be spotted at practically any sporting event in Korea, even if it’s not a football match. The value of the Son economy, that is the very of sales of Son-related products was estimated at around 2 trillion won (($1.5 billion) in 2020, according to a study by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism. Son’s net worth is reported to be around $31.6 million, including his roughly $9 million salary from Spurs. He was ranked at No. 3 on Forbes Korea’s 2022 Power Celebrity Index, after BTS and Blackpink. Basically, anything with son’s face on it sells like hotcakes. Son is on his penultimate step in achieving the lifelong dream of all footballers. If he manages to win a trophy or trophies with Spurs, this will make him superstar, very happy for him and long-suffering Spurs fans, but that said. I feel that the last step will be once he’s wearing the jersey of a global giant, like Manchester United, Real Madrid or Barcelona. Those 3 teams have that aura of invincibility. He can attract French giant PSG, Man City or Chelsea but those 3 previous teams have to be his ultimate goal. To win is to make continuous stakes on the bright football players, also on selected skilled players who are ever improving and making the team proud. On iLOT Bet you can find these relevant footballers to stake on to make a good win, keep your account active on www.ilotbet.com.