ABUJA – Ahead of Wednesday’s hearing by the Supreme Court in the case between the Federal Government and three governors of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, regarding the naira swap policy, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, national chairman of the ruling party, has met with the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami. The barely one-hour meeting which was held at the APC National Secretariat on Monday also had in attendance the plaintiffs, Governors Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State; Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, and Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State. A reliable source close to Governor Matawalle told News Point Nigeria that, the governors met with Malami on the invitation of the Attorney General for a possible out-of-court settlement. According to the source, “in the governors meeting last night, some of the progressives governors opened up a channel for out-of-court settlement with the FG”. “A certain governor promised to reach out to Malami SAN and bring both parties to the table for such settlement”, the source said. (Newspoint Nigeria) Abubakar Malami, SAN, ABUJA - The Director of Media and Publicity of the All Progressives Congress, Presidential Campaign Council, APC PCC, Bayo Onanuga, has described the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, as a “public enemy”. Mr Onanuga, who made the assertion in a tweet on Wednesday, said just like… In "Politics" Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu and the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) on Sunday called for compliance by the Federal Government to the Supreme Court order on the controversial naira swap policy. The call comes on the heels of a meeting between Adamu… In "Top Stories" AGF Abubakar Malami ABUJA - The Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, on Wednesday night urged the Supreme Court to dismiss a suit filed by three state governments challenging the naira redesign policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). In a preliminary objection… In "News"