Abuja (Sundiata Post) – A former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babachir Lawal, on Friday said that governance is out of President Muhammadu Buhari’s hands. Speaking during an interview on Channels Television’s special programme, The 2023 Verdict, the ex-SGF said that there is no government without an inner caucus. According to him, those in the current administration who had the ears of the President refused to carry Buhari’s expectations. “Things are out of his hands, there’s no running away from that fact. There are people that do not take the orders they are given,” he stated. “As soon as they leave where the order is given, they go and do different things. There is nothing like cabal. There is no government that does not have an inner caucus. There’s no government. “There are people who have the ears of the President, to whom the President by functionality, their functions in government, ought to do things, but they are not doing what the President tells them to do, or what the President expects them to do, or what society itself expects them to do.” He also explained that he dumped the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Labour Party, adding that he pitched his tent with the LP’s presidential candidate, Peter Obi, for the February 25 election after realizing that he is the ‘light’. Describing the APC and the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the old system which represents ‘darkness’, Lawal said he saw the light and left the darkness. “I have seen the light, you can repent when you see the light, I saw the light and repented. The light is Peter Obi; the darkness is the old system that used to govern us which is represented by both the PDP and APC. Same people, same agbada, same red caps, so Nigerians have seen the light not only me. “In the life of a people that are so oppressed living under indescribable insecurity, poverty, ignorance, hunger and diseases, a time comes when they get fed up and little thing will just ignite the flame and there is conflagration. I can tell you Peter Obi is that conflagration in Nigeria because every Nigerian has come to realize there is no way we can continue the way we are going,” Lawal said On what went wrong with the President Mohammadu Buhari’s administration which he was part of, the former SGF said the government didn’t function well and failed to live to expectations