By Glory Abuh-Adejoh Abuja, – An electrician, Ibrahim Hamisu, was arraigned on Monday before a Kado Grade 1 Court, Abuja for alledgely stealing five units of air conditioners valued at N1.2 million. Hamisu of no fixed address, is facing a three-count charge of joint act of criminal trespass and theft. The Prosecution Counsel, Mr Stanley Nwafoaku, told the court that the matter was reported at Garki Police Station by the complainant, John Amedu, the operations manager of AVK Security Services, on Jan. 7. Nwafoaku further alleged that the defendant, along with one Danjuma Rody, currently at large, formed a common intention and unlawfully entered the said address on Dec. 26, 28, and 29, 2022. The prosecutor added that the defendant, with his accomplice, then proceeded to cart away three units of Samsung and two units of Royal split air conditioners within the three mentioned days. He said during police investigation, the defendant confessed to have sold the items to one Salisu Nasiru and every attempt to recover the items had proved abortive. According to him, the offence contravenes the provision of Sections 79, 348 and 287 of the Penal Code. The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge. The judge, Muhammed Wakili, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N800,000 and a surety in like sum. He directed that the surety must provide a passport photograph, any valid means of identification and a BVN printout from his bank. Wakili also adjourned the matter until March 15 for hearing. (NAN) By Hauwa Gold Abuja - A gardener, Sunday Apuye, was on Wednesday docked in a Grade I Area Court in Karu, Abuja, for allegedly stealing 12 air conditioners worth N3 million. The police charged Apuye, 37, who lives opposite Nyanya police station, Abuja with theft. The Prosecution Counsel, Mr Ade… In "Metro" By Talatu Maiwada Abuja, - A 28-year-old unemployed man, Sahabi Nurah, was on Monday, docked in a Kado Grade I Area Court, Abuja for allegedly stealing two cell phones. Nurah, who resides in Utako, Abuja, is charged with theft. Prosecution  Counsel Stanley Nwafoaku, told the court that on Jan. 22,… In "Metro" By Talatu Maiwada Abuja - A 26-year-old security guard, Mohammed Gimba, was on Monday docked in a Kado Grade I Area Court in Abuja for allegedly conspiring to steal 240 pieces of building blocks. The police charged, Mohammed , who lworks in Top Global Security Ltd, Abuja, with criminal conspiracy… In "Metro"