By MUHAMMAD BELLO SOKOTO- Mr Muhammad Hafiz, the Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG) in charge of North West for the 2023 general elections on Thursday warned security personnel to remain apolitical throughout the process. Hafiz spoke on Thursday in Sokoto when he addressed the joint security personnel deployed to cover the Feb. 25 Presidential and National Assembly election in the state. “We are not politicians, our political party is Nigeria, we should maintain the status quo. “Our mandate as directed by the Inspector-General of Police is to ensure secure environment for Nigerians before, during and of course after election,“ he said The DIG directed that the personnel must ensure the fulfillment of the commitment by President Muhammadu Bihari toward  leaving a legacy that will be acceptable by Nigerians. “We should sustain the President’s assertion that security personnel are for everybody and they do not belong to any political party. “Therefore, we should continue to work together in ensuring a secured environment for Nigerians to vote for leaders of their choice before, during and beyond the elections,“ Hafiz said. In the same vein, Hafiz while addressing political party leaders warned politicians to caution their support against indulging in any act that would cause breach of the peace. “The security operatives will not allow any person or group to destruct the existing peaceful nature of the process,“ he added. Earlier, Mr Muhammed Gumel, the Commissioner of Police in the state, assured the DIG that the security personnel in the state were fully ready for the elections. “We have deployed enough security personnel that include Police, Army, Civil Defence and all other security outfits to ensure safety throughout the process and beyond,” he said. Gumel added that the state security agencies had deployed no fewer than 7,000 personnel to cover the 23 Local Government Areas of the state. (NAN) By MUHAMMAD NASIR SOKOTO- The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corp (NSCDC) has restated its commitment to ensure hitch-free and transparent 2023 elections in Sokoto State. Mr. Muhammad Dada, the NSCDC Commandant in the State made the assertion in a statement issued to newsmen in Sokoto on Friday by Mr… In "Metro" By MUHAMMAD NASIR SOKOTO- The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Sokoto State Council on Saturday warned members to avoid the temptation of being used for blackmail and character assassination for undue favour from politicians. The Council made the call in a communique issued at the end of its Congress meeting… In "Politics" By ISHAQ ZAKI GUSAU- The Federal High Court in Gusau, Zamfara, has nullified the governorship primary election of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that produced Dauda Lawan-Dare as the party’s governorship candidate in 2023 general elections in the state. Justice Aminu Bappa-Aliyu, during the sitting in Gusau on Friday, ordered… In "Politics"