ABUJA – The Labour Party presidential campaign is being taken to another level as the presidential candidate, Mr. Peter Obi, his Vice Yusuf Datti Baba- Ahmad and their wives, Margaret Obi and Hajiya Aisha Baba-Ahmed, are in different locations across the country persuading Nigerians to join the take-back Nigeria train. Sundiata Post reports that fresh from the nationwide campaigns rallies across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Obi, and his team have continued their whistle stops at strategic points. The presidential candidate who was back in Lagos Monday to meet with traders in various markets, and in Enugu and Nnewi on Tuesday arrived Owerri, Imo state capital on Thursday to a tumultuous reception by organic supporters of youths and traders in various markets in the city. His running mate, Datti Baba-Ahmed was at the same time leading another Obi-Datti campaign team for a royal engagement in Onitsha, Anambra State where they met with the Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Alfred Achebe in his palace. In Benin, Edo State, one of the front-running Obidient states, their wives were during the week engaging strategic stakeholders, the women in a frank talk on the role of women in the emerging new Nigeria. In all the locations, the message is clear, a new Nigeria is possible and is on the way by February 25, 2023, but the people must stand out to be counted and to make it possible. Securing and uniting Nigerians remain the top priorities if elected, and they keep pushing the message. Without a secure environment, Nigeria cannot produce and without production, the country cannot lift or give our youths jobs without jobs, it will be difficult to lift people out of poverty and when people are poor and unemployed crimes and criminalities will keep rising. In Imo, Obi was again confronted with a touching show of love by the people including a nursing mother with a small baby who caught the attention of the candidate and he had to lift the baby in admiration and cheer of the crowd. Sundiata Post recalls that in Lagos a young teenager, Yusuf Alabi, in a show of love had to block Obi’s vehicle just to appreciate him and in his characteristic manner, Obi prevented security operatives from forcing him out but instead met the young lad. Sundiata Post reports that while the people at every location are showing love to the candidate with their organic behaviour toward him, he also continued to pour out his compassionate self to them. What Obi-Datti and their team continue to show to Nigerians is that the job of a President and Vice President of Nigeria requires physical and mental alertness which only the duo can provide Nigeria among the lot vying for the office.