By DOUGLAS OKORO ABAKALIKI- Chief Henry Ude (AjimBest), a chieftain of the Labour Party in Ebonyi has defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). This is contained in a statement on Wednesday in Abakaliki signed by Chief Abia Onyike, the Director, Media and Publicity, PDP Governorship Campaign Council. Ude, one of the founding fathers of Ebonyi and an LP stalwart in Okposi, Ohaozara Local Government Area of the state confirmed the development when he spoke with journalists in Abakaliki. He said his decision to return back to his former party was to help in the struggle to free the state from political quagmire. Ude, a founding members of PDP was famous for singlehandedly sponsoring media advertisements during the struggle for the creation of Ebony in the early 1990s by Military Head of State, late Gen. Sani Abacha. He said that he was convinced that the PDP had the capacity to restore peace, security and freedom to the people in the state. “I am in PDP now to join the rest of our patriotic forces who are yearning for freedom of movement, freedom of association and freedom for liberty and progress,” Ude said. He enjoined the people to join the new political liberation movement led by the state PDP governorship candidate, Dr Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii to wrestle power from the APC led administration in the state. “I am assuring Ebonyi people that it is feasible, achievable and possible for PDP to reclaim its stolen mandate in order to reposition the state through good governance to cater for the welfare and well-being of the masses. “The secret of life is, ‘have no fear’ when you are being pushed and you continue to run, you will never stop running. With the help of Almighty God, Ebonyi will be free again,” he said. (NAN) By Chukwuemeka Opara Abakaliki  -    The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has won the chairmanship seats of the 13 Local Government Areas of Ebonyi in the Saturday local council polls. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the party also won all the councillorship seats in the 171 wards… In "News" By Douglas Okoro Abakaliki  - Mr Eni-Uduma Chima, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ebonyi, says the defection of Sen. Soni Ogbuoji to the All Progressives Congress (APC) will not affect the party’s electoral fortunes in the 2019 general elections. Chima, who is the Chairman of Afikpo… In "Politics" By Douglas Okoro Abakalik - The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ebonyi, says the Pa Oruta Ngele Stadium Abakaliki remains the official venue for its mega rally on Saturday. The chairman of APC in the state, Chief Eze Nwachukwu, made this known at a press briefing on Friday in Abakaliki,… In "Features"