By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Banks under the aegis of the Association of Corporate Affairs Managers of Banks (ACAMB), have dismissed as false, the claim of shutting down services for the general elections slated for Saturday, February 25, 2023. Recall that there have been some trending messages suggesting that commercial banks will close its services. However, in a statement on Wednesday, ACAMB President, Rasheed Bolarinwa, said the messages were concocted by faceless authors. The motive, he stated, was to cause disaffection among Nigerians and the Deposit Monetary Banks (DMBs). “The attention of the Association of Corporate Affairs Managers of Banks (ACAMB), the umbrella body of Corporate and Marketing Communications Professionals working in Nigeria’s banking sector, has been drawn to the trending social media message purporting that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) was shutting down banking services for five days from Thursday, 23rd to Monday 27th February 2023 because of the general elections holding in Nigeria over next two weekends,” the statement stated. “ACAMB hereby wishes to debunk the fake news in its entirety and wishes to assure Nigerians and the banking public that there is no iota of truth in the viral message that is being circulated. Up until this moment, no Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) or other institutions providing financial services have received any directive or communication from the CBN to close the doors of their physical banking halls or shut their digital platforms and online banking channels against their customers because of elections. “ACAMB further wishes to assure customers that their respective banks have put in place measures to ensure that depositors can as usual, access money in their accounts during this period. “Also, customers who wish to carry out transfers or use electronic banking services will have unhindered access to these services before, during, and after the elections. “ACAMB urges Nigerians not to panic and to also avoid uncontrolled spending as a result of the fake news about the alleged plan to shut down bank branches and all digital banking channels.  Members of the public should discountenance the trending message maliciously concocted by its faceless authors to cause disaffection among the citizenry and the DMBs. “ACAMB calls on Nigerians to be peaceful and orderly during the elections and wishes the nation successful conduct of free, fair, and credible elections.” Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State will be the Chief Guest of Honour at the 3rd annual conference of the Guild of Corporate Online Publishers (GOCOP) holding at Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos State on October 4, 2019. A statement on Tuesday by GOCOP Publicity Secretary, Olumide Iyanda, said the theme… In "News" By Ismaila Chafe Abuja - President Muhammadu Buhari has felicitated with veteran journalism practitioner and trainer, Malam Kabir Dangogo on the occasion of his 70th birthday. The president  expressed the felicitation in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja. While celebrating… In "News" ABUJA - Strategy and Marketi­ng Communications ex­pert, Mr. Lanre Alab­i, has been appointed Chairman of the Orga­nising Committee of the maiden Nigerian Online Merit Award (NiOMA) scheduled to hold in the second quarter of 2018. A statement issued on Sunday in Lagos by the initiators of the award, News Express… In "News"