By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The member representing Nkanu East/West Federal Constituency of Enugu State in the National Assembly, Honourable Nnolim Nnaji has expressed his deep felt appreciations to his constituents for their trust in him. Honourable Nnaji who was on Sunday declared the winner of last Saturday’s House of Representatives’ election by the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC) reassured the people of Nkanu East/West Federal Constituency of his continued quality representations in the next Assembly. Honourable Nnaji, as the chairman of the House of Representatives’ Committee on Aviation spearheaded the passage of six Executive Bills on the amendment of the civil aviation Acts. His swift interventions in several critical aviation matters especially the rehabilitation of Akanu Ibiam International Airport, (AIIA) enugu , have also earned him a lot of commendations from key players in the sector. He has equally sponsored quite a number of motions touching on important national issues of public interest in the current Assembly. Honourable Nnaji has as well attracted impactful infrastructural projects to his Constituency in the last four years. By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Honourable Nnolim Nnaji was on Sunday elected the People's Democratic Party, (PDP) flag bearer for Nkanu East/West Federal Constituency of Enugu State. Honourable Nnaji who is currently the Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Aviation pulled a total of 78 Votes… In "Top Stories" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The member representing Nkanu East/West Federal Constituency of Enugu State in the House of Representatives, Honourable Nnolim Nnaji has expressed sadness over the horrible murder of his constituent, Barrister Oyibo Chukwu.Barrister Chukwu, a Senatorial candidate of the Labour Party for Enugu East Senatorial… In "Top Stories" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The lawmaker representing Nkanu East/West Federal Constituency of Enugu State in the House of Representatives, Honourable Nnolim Nnaji has raised alarm over the spate of kidnapping and general insecurity in his Constituency. He stated that the situation has grounded businesses in the area… In "Top Stories"