By FLORENCE ONUEGBU IKEJA- Lagos State government on Friday says there is no need for violence over naira redesign as the Supreme Court is looking into it and will make its position known on Feb. 22. Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso stated in Ikeja that government had noted protests in some parts of the state on Friday with deep concerns. Omotoso noted that the protesters were said to be angry over the naira redesign and its consequent scarcity that had caused so much hardship and confusion among the people. “Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu believes there is no need for violence as the Supreme Court is looking into this controversial matter and will make its position known on Feb. 22. “Lagos State has since joined the legal dispute – all in the interest of our people – in the belief that the highest court in the land has the capacity to adjudicate on the matter,’’ he stated. According to him, the fuel situation is easing following some steps taken by the government. The commissioner commended Lagos residents for showing understanding, in spite of the pains that the Federal Government’s measures had brought. He urged residents to continue to be law-abiding, by shunning any form of incitement by mischief makers. Omotoso assured that Gov. Sanwo-Olu was working with his colleagues to ensure that the hardship ended. (NAN) By FLORENCE ONUEGBU From left, Special Adviser to the Governor on Transportation, Mr Sola Giwa; Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederic Oladeinde and Commissioner for Information & Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso during a news briefing on the update on Lagos Motorcycles (Okada) Ban LAGOS- The Lagos State Government on Wednesday said… In "News" By FLORENCE ONUEGBU From left, Former Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosun; All Progressive Congress (APC), Zonal Organizing Secretary, Southwest, Mr Lateef Ibirogba; Director General of the Lagos State APC Campaign Council, Senator Ganiyu Solomon; APC Chairman in Lagos, Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi; Lagos Commissioner for Housing, Mr Fatai Akinderu;… In "Politics" The order to crackdown on #endsarsmemorial protesters was not given by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Lagos state Information Commissioner, Gbenga Omotoso has stated. He spoke on Wednesday in an interview with Arise News. Omotoso denied Sanwo-Olu stopped event centres from renting their facilities to organisers of programmes commemorating the October… In "News"