By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Jubilation has engulfed Ohafia Local Government Area (LGA) of Abia State as almost all the Leaders and Stakeholders of the six remaining LGA wards of the council, including Traditional Leaders , clergy, party faithfuls from major political parties, other residents and supporters of Senator Orji Uzor Kalu converged at their various meetings points to reaffirm their concerted backing and decision to vote massively for the re-election of the presiding Senator at the February 25th polls to continue representing Abia-North at National Assembly on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The constituents also threw their weight behind the APC House of Representatives candidate for Arochukwu/Ohafia Federal Constituency, Hon. Daniel Okeke and Ohafia South State Constituency Hon. Dike Dike Okoro Uche , pledging to deliver 99 percent votes to the aforementioned candidates at the forthcoming elections in the state. Still on his campaign tour, Kalu on Monday made entry to the council to consult constituents of the six remaining wards he skipped the last time he visited they include; Okon-Aku, Army Barracks Mammy Market, Abiaohafia, Akanu Ukwu Ohafia, Ndi Uduma Awaoke and Isiugwu Ohafia. While giving their confidence votes the Stakeholders at each ward submitted that Kalu who is also the Senate Chief Whip is the only public office holder who has never forgotten their council areas in the scheme of Democratic dividends which has promoted peace and exposure of their rural areas to economic opportunities. They added that Kalu’s continued representation of the zone at the National Assembly is much needed by them than any of the other four local government areas in order to build on some projects he had already started in some of their localities, most especially the road construction. In the course of his speech President General of Uduma Development Union applauded Kalu for facilitating the construction of critical Development projects to their wards. He mentioned the construction of a 1km road with Asphalt and Drainage and pledged their commitment to vote massively for the Senator. He said ; “Your work does the talking, we’ve seen you give out free textbooks and learning materials, built roads , sponsor 25 bills, solar lights, and so on. You have made us proud and we have united to say Yes ! To your reelection. During their interaction held at Abia community primary and secondary school, A Traditional Leader and Revered Chieftain of Ohafia the Ezeogo Abia , Eze Kalu Anunsi was full of appreciation to Kalu for some notable projects he executed in their communities, they include ; construction of 2km rural roads with asphalt and drainage from Abia to Akanu Ukwu and Construction of 2km rural road with asphalt and drainage, Akanu. Another Traditional Leader, the Ezeogo Isuigu, Okorie Ukpe, appreciated Kalu for the construction of the Isiugwu of 1 and 2 km rural roads with asphalt and drainage. Both leaders described Kalu as a trustworthy and innovative leader saying that his good works will continue to speak for him, reassuring him of the maximum support and solidarity of the people of their respective wards in the upcoming elections and beyond. Ward Leader of Barracks Mammy Market ward, Mrs. Ezeaka Ginika lauded Kalu for the renovation of 1 Classroom block at Callins Primary School ,Okonu saying that Kalu’s educational intervention has eased the stress on parents and motivated their children to learn and made known their resolve to back his reelection. At Abia ward the African Action Congress (AAC) candidate for Arochukwu/Ohafia Federal Constituency, Mr. Kalu Prince-Iroha openly declared support for Kalu citing his satisfaction with the level of infrastructure in their district courtesy done by the Senator. The House of Assembly Candidate also informed that he and his party have concluded to collapse their structure to work for the re-election of Kalu. Iroha a former Special Assistant to Abia State governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu said; “I want to appreciate Kalu for these notable projects, all these years nobody has remembered us. With all sincerity Kalu’s efforts at the Senate our area now wears a new look. I and my team have fully declared to support his candidature, we have resolved to work for him to return to the National Assembly. Recall that, Hon. Ebere Nwankwo, a House of Assembly candidate for Umunneochi State Constituency under the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), had openly endorsed the re-election bid of Kalu. Nwankwo popularly known as Ebere Umunneochi did the open declaration on Sunday at Obinolu ward in Isuochi, Umunneochi Local Government Area during the senator’s campaign visit to the area on Sunday. In his responses at Ohafia, the Senate Chief Whip appreciated their endorsements saying that his main reason for seeking a return is to complete and expand some projects he had initiated. According to him no ward will be left without a project adding that it can only be achieved if they voted for him. Kalu disclosed his intentions; ” I’m only concerned with completing some projects which I have started in your communities, just like I have decided in extending the Okon Aku Road and linking it to Biasse (Cross River). “You all know I am a man of my words, just like when I promised free education as Governor, I delivered so this will not be an exception. For me this is not a campaign I was in August during my midterm tour to assess your welfare. Now I am here again to interact with you to let you know my next phase of development. “The roads some of you requested won’t be abandoned, we have held talks with the Federal Government to extend the ring road at Uduma to Arochukwu. We have been given assurances that the contractors would be paid to return to site. I believe in Equity so that other Communities will also have their fair share of projects. Other stakeholders who spoke on behalf of the people include , Ohafia APC Chairman, Chief Emma Nwosu; Vice President General of Okon-Aku, Sir. Nelson Kalu; Okonu Community Leader , Chief Oge Umeh ; Ndumaawaoke ward leader, Okorie Mbila Kalu and other ward leaders. By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - After careful assessment of other candidates vying for the Abia-North Senatorial seat in the forthcoming February 25th polls, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu of the All Progressive's Congress has been declared as the most credible and dependable one. Kalu, the presiding Senator of the… In "Politics" By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Voters in Nkporo wards of Abia North Senatorial District have vowed to deliver the maximum votes accruable in their polling units in favour of the candidate of the All Progressive's Congress (APC), Senator Orji Uzor Kalu in forthcoming Presidential and National Assembly elections… In "Politics" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared Opeyemi Bamidele of the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the election in in Ekiti central senatorial district. With 94,279 votes, Bamidele defeated Obafemi Adewale of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who polled a total of 48,707 votes. Bamidele was a member… In "Politics"