By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Plateau State Labour Party Governorship candidate, Dr. Patrick Dakum has said if the Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi wins in the February 25th 2023 presidential elections, Nigerians will rejoice in many quarters. Dakum said among the three leading presidential candidates Mr. Obi stands out in all ramifications interns of intelligence, integrity, equity, Justice and fairness. “This is the only opportunity the country has to get it right. If our presidential candidate wins, Nigerians will rejoice”, he said. Dakum disclosed this during a media engagement with members of the Correspondents’ Chapel, NUJ, Plateau State Council where he also explained how he will also fight insecurity that has polarized Plateau for over two decades. He expressed strong commitment to lead the State out of the current hardship, poverty and run an all inclusive goverment if elected into office. Speaking further on what he will do if elected Governor in the March 11, 2023 governorship elections, he noted that his government will empower women, youths and people with disability and make them economically self reliance to fight the poverty index in the State. According to him: “The pillers in which the Labour Party is founded is social justice. Social Justice demands that you provide inclusiveness to everybody and that is what our party stands for. Inclusiveness of the vulnerable groups because they are the indicators of measuring whether a community is develop or not. “When I talk of inclusiveness, I am talking about young people, women, people living with disabilities and the elderly. I will ensure that they are empowered to become self reliance”, he said. He added that Mr. Peter Obi is prepared to decentralize the security architecture in the country and give room for community policing, saying he would key into the agenda to protect Plateau people using vigilante groups and hunters association in the State. “We will strengthen the vigilante groups, hunters association and the traditional institutions in the fight against insecurity. None of these are on the budget, we will use security vote to strengthen the system while we equip other Nigeria security forces. “If you are to be asking questions today in Nigeria from community to community that are you happy with the way things are going as far as governance is concerned, the overwhelming result will be that we are not happy. “If we are not happy, why will we continue on the party that things are not working. I believe that in understanding the times that we are is what has given raise to Labour Party. Peter Obi has come not only on the platform of Labour Party but Obedient Movement.” He noted that the movement of the party both at the Federal and at the state level goes beyond the membership of the party it is made up of families that are dissatisfied with the unfolding events in the country, he said. By POLYCARP AUTA Mr Peter Obi JOS- Mr Peter Obi, the Presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), says he will run an all-inclusive government if elected President. Obi, who made the promise at the party’s rally on Friday in Jos, promised to carry youth, women and Persons with Disabilities… In "Politics" By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The embattled Labour Party Governorship Candidate in Plateau State, Amb. Yohanna Margif, has reminded Dr. Patrick Dakum that the recent federal High Court Judgement to his favour will soon be reclaimed, as he has concluded plans to approach the Court of Appeal. Margif… In "Top Stories" By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - Governorship candidate of the Labour Party in Plateau State, Amb. Yohanna Margif has said he paid N15 million to obtain the Labour Party Governorship nomination form in the State. Margif said apart from obtaining the form, he also fulfilled all requirements of the… In "Top Stories"