By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has insisted there will not be another extension of the deadline for the collection of Permanent Voter Cards (PVC) before the general elections. The commission said it needs to move its staff away from the issuance of PVCs to other sectors that need attention ahead of the elections. The INEC National Commissioner and Chairman of Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, stated this on Thursday while appearing as a guest on Channels Television’s The 2023 Verdict programme. “Unfortunately we are not going to extend the collection of PVCs. The periods we have extended are sufficient and we need to get right into the election and do some other things. If we don’t move our staff away from the issuance of PVCs, other sectors that we need to take care of will definitely not be taken care of,” Okoye said. On the number of cards collected so far, the INEC National Commissioner said the electoral umpire does not have the complete details yet. “We have informed all our electoral officers in all the local government of the federation and all the resident electoral commissioners to compile all the details of PVC collection based on each polling unit, based on each registration area, based on each local government, and also based on state specifics and forward immediately to INEC at the national headquarters to enable us to publish so that Nigerians will know the number of PVCs collected,” he added. He also disclosed that the commission will gather uncollected PVCs and deposit them at the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) until after the 2023 elections. Abuja- The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has further extended the deadline for collection of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) until March 8, 2015. This is contained in a statement signed by the Secretary to the Commission, Mrs Augusta Ogakwu in Abuja on Monday. The statement quoted Ogakwu as saying the… In "News" Two NGOs, African Bridge Initiative and Initiative of Change Nigeria have begged voter card registrants to go pick up their permanent voters card. The two NGO’s urged the public to take advantage of the deadline extension for the collection of the Permanent Voter Cards (PVC) by the electoral body to… In "News" •INEC Chairman, Prof. Yakubu ABUJA - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has extended the timeframe for the collection of Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) in its 774 Local Government Offices nationwide. The extension is for one week. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye Esq.,… In "Top Stories"