By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Plateau State governorship candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Barr. Caleb Mutfwang has berated Governor Simon Lalong, saying he has no project to commission in the State except for lies and unguarded utterances. Muftwang said the State has wasted almost eight years listening to lies and propaganda from the Lalong led APC government in Plateau. The PDP governorship candidate stated this in Pankshin Local Government Area of the State recently, during continuation of his town hall meetings currently going on across the State. “I regretted that Governor Lalong is a governor with no projects to commission except lies and unguarded utterances. “If I am voted into power, I will embark on a mission to recover and reset the State from the damage unleashed on it by the APC government”, Muftwang said. He therefore urge Nigerians to reject and kill APC before they kill democracy as reflected in the hardship the people are facing in all sectors of life. He promised that the PDP under him will provide true leadership and leave a legacy of social justice and service to the people. Mutfwang noted that security, rural development, physically challenged, health, education, workers, pensions, traders, youth and women are part of his vision for a new Plateau State. Also at the meeting, the State Party Chairman, Chris Hassan said Mutfwang has the intellectual capacity to push the fortunes of Plateau, stressing the party has no legal encumbrance that will hinder it’s participation in the elections. Earlier, the Director General of the campaign, Hon. Letep Dabang said as a former chieftain of the APC, the party has failed the people while it has remained a lawless party as exhibited during it’s primaries which is still in court. The Town Hall meeting featured interaction between Mutfwang and various representatives of groups and stakeholders from Pankshin on various issues bordering on economy, security, welfare and infrastructure. The campaign train also paid homage on the Pankshin traditional council led by Mishkom Mupun, Da Yusuf Walle Fwangbiring. Mutfwang promised that he will do his best to address the challenges of the people while soliciting their fatherly blessings. The monarch however stressed that all they want for their people is good governance. By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The People's Democratic Party (PDP), governorship candidate in Plateau State, Barr. Caleb Muftwang has taken his campaign tour to his home town of Mangu Local Government Area of the State, promising to unite the people of Plateau if voted into power in the… In "Top Stories" By Ajani Okanlawon - JOS - With a difference of 48,769 votes incumbent Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State has been declared winner of the re-run governorship election held on Saturday. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) returning officer, Professor Richard Kimbir, announced Lalong’s re-election for a second term on Sunday at… In "News" By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) - The Plateau State People's Democratic Party's governorship candidate, Barr. Caleb Mutfwang and his running mate, Josephine Piyo, on Tuesday paid an emotional visit to the 13 families of the truck victims who lost their lives last Saturday while returning from the PDP zonal… In "Top Stories"