By Chijioke Kingsley Abuja (Sundiata Post) – The Jos Electricity Distribution Company (JED), has concluded plans to extend electricity supply to over 10 manufacturing companies in Plateau State which has the capability to add 5000 unemployed youths to its employment payroll if electricity is installed. The companies have not been on electricity connection since established, a condition that has miltigated productivity and expansion, Chairman of one of the companies, Dilkon Group of Companies, Hon. Leonard Dilkon said at the weekend in Jos South when the Managing Director, Jos Electricity Distribution Company Engr. Abdu Bello Mohammed paid a visit to the affected companies. Speaking during the visit, Mohammed said the Bisichi community in Jos South LGA has the potential of becoming the industrial hub of the State if electricity is extended to the companies. “The industries if put to maximum use could reduce the unemployment status of the State by about 5000”, Dilkon emphasised during his interaction with the Jos DisCo Managing Director. However in a statement sent to our correspondent by the Head, Corporate Communication, Jos Electricity Distribution Company, Dr. Friday Adakole Elijah, the energy company said the Managing Director has been working assiduously towards qualitative energy delivery to the company’s franchise states and has taken time to visit the factories with the view to extending electricity supply to the locals. According to the statement: Mohammed was elated by what he saw and disclosed that he had already secured approval from the Board of Directors to extend electricity to that area. “The MD instantaneously constituted a committee made up of the Head, Regional Operations, Engr John Emeruwa, the Chief Technical Officer, Engr Amisu Jigawa, the Regional Manager in charge of Bukuru Region, Engr Patrick Dalahol and the Head, Network Planning and Expansion, Engr Hamisu Ishak to work out the modalities towards the extension of electricity to the vicinity. “There are about 10 ultra-modern factories located in the area with the prospect of consuming a huge amount of energy. “The factories belonging to the Dilkon Group of Companies located in the area are as follows – Hamtul Ventures Ltd, Hamtul Press Ltd, Hamtul Farms and Agro Allied Ltd, Dilkon PlasticsLtd, Dilkon Stationaries, Dilkon Tissue Papers, Dilkon Garments, Dilkon Aluminium and Wire Ltd and Dilkon Water”, the statement reads. Reacting, Dilkon thanked the Managing Director, Engr Mohammed for coming down to the premises of the company to have a personal appraisal of their energy requirements. He said,: “this is the first time that a Chief Executive Officer of Jos Electricity Distribution Company will show interest in us by paying us a personal visit. Today is my happiest day. I am indeed grateful. “We have the capacity and capabilities of creating huge employment on the Plateau but at the moment, we are hampered by a lack of electricity supply. As you can see, our energy requirements are enormous. We believe that with this visit, our problems would soon come to an end. We can’t thank you enough”, Dilkon said.