By Chibuike Nwabuko Abuja (Sundiata Post) – Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has asked the Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu to save Nigeria from the looming danger and disaster which is just waiting to happen, if he is not one of those INEC officials who collected blood money to perverse the will of the people. Obasanjo who alleged that INEC officials at operational level have been compromised, charged the Chairman not to claim ignorance but to do everything to rectify the errors of the last two days, including but not limited to declaring void and inadmissible, the results where BVAS and Servers have been manipulated or rendered inactive. Similarly, he reminded President Muhammadu Buhari that tension is building up and urged him to cancel all elections that do not pass the credibility and transparency test and hold fresh elections in those areas next Saturday. Obasanjo made the call on Monday in a statement he personally signed titled: “2023: Nigeria Presidential Election – An Appeal For Caution And Rectification”, made available to newsmen. The statement reads in full: Nigerian Brothers and Sisters, greetings to you all. I am constrained to speak at this point.I crave the indulgence of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency General Muhammadu Buhari, to make this statement because I have had opportunity to keep him aware of what I know is happening and the danger looming ahead. On many occasions in the past, I have not hesitated to point out lacuna in the action of the President and his government. But as far as the election issues are concerned, the President has proved beyond reasonable doubt that he will want to leave a legacy of free, fair, transparent and credible elections. Until last Saturday night, February 25, 2023, the good and noble plan and preparation for the elections seemed to be going well. For the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), a lot of money was spent to introduce Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS), and the Server for immediate transmission of results from polling units. It is no secret that INEC officials, at operational level, have been allegedly compromised to make what should have worked not to work and to revert to manual transmission of results which is manipulated and the results doctored. The Chairman of INEC may claim ignorance but he cannot fold his hands and do nothing when he knows that election process has been corrupted and most of the results that are brought outside BVAS and Server are not true reflection of the will of Nigerians who have made their individual choice. At this stage, we do not need wittingly or unwittingly to set this country on fire with the greed, irresponsibility and unpatriotic act of those who allegedly gave money to INEC officials for perversion and those who collected the blood money. Let me appeal to the Chairman of INEC, if his hands are clean, to save Nigeria from the looming danger and disaster which is just waiting to happen. If the Chairman can postpone elections four days to the election, he can do everything to rectify the errors of the last two days – no BVAS, no result to be acceptable; and no uploading through Server, no result to be acceptable. Whereas, BVAS and Servers have been manipulated or rendered inactive, such results must be declared void and inadmissible for election declaration. Chairman INEC, I have thought that you would use this wonderful opportunity to mend your reputation and character for posterity. Your Excellency, President Buhari Muhammadu, tension is building up and please let all elections that do not pass the credibility and transparency test be cancelled and be brought back with areas where elections were disrupted for next Saturday, March 4, 2023, and BVAS and Server officials be changed. To know which stations or polling units were manipulated, let a Committee of INEC staff and representatives of the four major political parties with the Chairman of Nigerian Bar Association look into what must be done to have hitch-free elections next Saturday. Mr. President, may your plan and hope for leaving a legacy of free, fair, transparent and credible election be realised. Mr. President, please don’t let anybody say to you that it does not matter or it is the problem of INEC. On no account should you be seen as part of the collusion or compromise. When the die is cast, it will be your problem as the Chief Executive of the nation. The Chairman of INEC may sneak out of the country or go back to his ivory tower. Your Excellency, thank you for hearing me out. Compatriot Nigerians, please exercise patience until the wrong is righted. I strongly believe that nobody will toy with the future and fortune of Nigeria at this juncture. Long live Nigeria in peace, security, stability and in the hope for greater future. OLUSEGUN OBASANJOFebruary 27, 2023. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo ABUJA (Sundiata Post) - Former President Olusegun Obasanjo on Monday weighed in on the on-going election crisis, urging President Muhammadu Buhari and Prof Mahmood, chairman of INEC to insist on electronic transmission of results from polling units. His statement personally signed by him reads: 2023 NIGERIA… In "Top Stories" By Olawale Jokotoye Abeokuta - As congratulatory messages continued to pour in from within and outside the country over the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari, former President, Olusegun Obasanjo has kept mum over the development. The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, in the early… In "Top Stories" By Emmanuel Oloniruha   Abuja -   The Independent National Electoral Commission says it is wrong to accuse it of partisanship or of being an appendage of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The commission stated this in a publication made available to newsmen by Mohammed Haruna, INEC National Commissioner… In "Politics"