By MAUREEN OKON ABUJA- Dr Nasiru Ladan, Director-General, All Progressives Congress (APC) Support Groups has called on the members of the party to remain focused to ensure its victory at all levels in the forthcoming  elections. He spoke on Sunday in Abuja at the inauguration of Alhaji Suleiman Isyaku as the Director of the Amalgamated APC Support Groups (AASG) for the North-Central Zone. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Isyaku is also the  Chairman of Tinubu/Shettima Ordained Movement. The event also witnessed the inauguration of North-Central zonal leadership and the unveiling of the national executives of AASG, which comprises  major APC support groups. Ladan said AASG was established to rally support for the party and its presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and other candidates at all levels across Nigeria. He further added: “Tinubu’s outstanding leadership qualities, personal attributes and antecedents as a former two-term governor of Lagos State were enough evidence that Nigerians would be safe under his watch.” He described Tinubu and his running mate, Sen. Kashim Shettima,  as ‘merchants of hope.’ “They are capable of redefining the meaning and concept of modern leadership in Nigeria. The duo would project their joint ticket as a transformation agenda.” Speaking also, Isyaka said the group was in search of credible leadership which could only be found in Tinubu, saying he would consolidate on the gains of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. He added that as members of a united front, the common goal was to mobilise eligible voters at the ward and unit levels, as well as engage major stakeholders across states of the federation. Isyaka expressed optimism that APC would win the forthcoming elections from top to bottom on Feb. 25 and March 11, respectively. The special guest of the event, Mrs Folasade Tinubu, the Iyaloja of Lagos State spoke on the need for the party members to be united to ensure its victory at the polls. She appreciated all the support groups for their immerse contributions at the various stages of the Tinubu/Shettima campaign rallies across the country. She said: “It is important to educate the electorate on how to vote so that their votes would be valid during the polls.” (NAN) By MUHAMMAD NUR KANO- About 2,000 All Progressives Congress (APC) Support Groups in Kano on Sunday, staged a 1 million Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) Walk for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to mobilise support for him for 2023 presidential election.Addressing the groups, Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje urged them to ensure massive mobilisation for… In "Politics" KATSINA - The Katsina State Elections Tribunal has received petitions from the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP), governorship candidate, Alhaji Musa Nashuni, and three others. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that Nashuni is challenging the election of Alhaji Aminu Masari of All Progressives Congress (APC), on three grounds. Nashuni… In "News" Damaturu -  The All Progressives Congress (APC) has won the Amaturu/Tarmuwa/Gujba/Gulani Federal Constituency bye election held on Saturday. The Yobe federal constituency seat became vacant following the appointment of Khadija Bukar as a minister in the federal cabinet. Prof. Sunday Alao, the Returning Officer of the election, on Saturday in… In "News"